1. Image: 0295655d-81ab-4fdf-a7d2-c4661cabe311.jpg
   Extracted Text: 2, 2025 par er start armer yed the facesin   Ukraine to give gh up long. held  strategic position un PRISCILA AZEVEDO ROCHA, rm DANIELHORNAK  ANNA SHIRYAEVSKAYA January 1 SELLits nArt RUSSIAN GAS STOPPED flowing apital for to Europe via Ukraine,closing offa vilion route thats operated for five ym decades after Kyiv refused to allow ocus any transit that funds Moscows S. war machine. Both sides confirmed the halt on Wednesday after a key transit deal expired. The stoppage means ked stake  central European countries that nn have relied on the flows will be forced to source more expensive RM gaselsewhere, compounding pres- iby sure on supplies just as the region agreed  depletes winter storage at the tfor fastest pacein years. Whiletheroute accountsforjust OUP 506 of Europes needs, nations are and still reeling from the aftershocks of es. an energy crisis triggered by Rus- sias invasion of its neighbour. Gas rt prices areup 50 year-on-year, get- ting a boost in recent weeks from 2S the looming cutoff in supply. The continent is now increasingly exposed to market volatility as it hing-te becomes morereliant on global liq- jequal, _uefied natural gas. lerly For Russia, the loss of one of its It two remaining gas-pipeline routes was to Europe will slash revenue by snwhat about 6 billion a year, Bloomberg jof calculations show. Ukrainewill also miss outon transit fees and give up GENCIES _ itslong-held strategic position asa Wo inflatian RUSSIAN GAS FLOWS THROUGH UKRAINE Sudsha RUSSIA BELARUS ent Pont Uigsinian   Main gas incursion ipelines peoue Spee ai Karki TRE  Other gas pipelines HUN ROMANIA Sevastopol g 200 mi 200k lmThe stoppage means central Europewill be forced to source more expensive gas mThe route accounts for 5 of Europes needs For Russia, the loss of one ofits two pipeline routes to Europe will slash revenue by about 6bn ayear Ukrainian territory Under Russian terrtory Vy me a Note Only the portion of pipelines that run through Ukraine are Soktranivka displayed on the map entry point Sources The Institute stopped for the Study of War Perations assessed areas of control as of Sept. 5 The Oxford Institute for Eneray Studies Bloomberg conduit of affordable energy for Westem allies This termination of gas tran- sit is not just a supply-chain adjustment  its the symbolic collapse of an era, said Tatiana Mitrova,aresearcherat the Center on Global Energy Policy at Colum- bia University. A significant part of the Soviet-built gas-pipeline FCR hones ta FINANCIAL EXPRESS Thu, 2 January 2025 network, which once brought Siberian gas to Europe, is now a shadow of its former self Most central European customers of Russias Gazprom PJSC have man- aged to source alternative sup- plies, but at a higher cost. Slovakias largest gas utility, Slovensky Plynarensky Priemysel AS, said it will pay about 90 mil- BOTH SIDES CONFIRMED THE HALT AFTERA KEY TRANSIT DEAL EXPIRED Russia and Ukraine cease five  decades of gas transit to EU lion 93 million more a year to guarantee stable imports through different routes. Italsowarned that in the event of a cold winter, all of Europe has been left more vulnerable. Deal Ends Gazprom halted supplies on New Years Day after the five-year transit deal expired, citing a lack of technical and legal opportunities for shipments amid repeated and explicit refusalofthe Ukrainian side to extend these agreements. The stop was confirmed by Ukraines Energy Ministry, which said Russ- ian flows acrossits territory ceased as of 7 a.m. local time. While theresnoriskofanimme- diate shortfall in Europe, the stop- page may make stockpiling more challenging ahead of the next heat- ing season. The regions inventories have been shrinking rapidly and are now below 75 full. With Russias piped flows to Europe diminished, President Vladimir Putin will likely doubledownoneffortstoboost LNG shipments Jongapersonalambition. Despite calls by some European countries to ban liquefied gas sup- plies from Moscow, the region is buying record amounts. Russias further LNG expan- sion faces a wall of Western sanc- tions, though US President-elect Donald Trump may seek to alter penalties amid any potential efforts to end the war. Across Europe, the loss of some crucial Russian piped gasthreatens todrive up bills forhouseholds and industry as they strive to recover from the worst cost-of living crisis indecades. BLOOMBERG Mashadala sinc DIE sc https epaper. financialexpress. comc76539400 A a c hb o P o ia LT ae ea aS

2. Image: 07f4739a-168f-4892-b145-adf82680d48f.jpg
   Extracted Text: Mercedes, Toyota building super-hybrids BLOOMBERG January 3 THE MERCEDES GLC 35 0coffers fourzones of climate control and its headlights project icons onto the pavement  such as a pedes- trian  to warn of coming haz- ards. But the SUVs most impres- sive trick is less ostentatious It can travel from Ossining, New York, to Midtown Manhattan  roughly Don Drapers commute in Mad Men  entirely on elec- trons, with its turbocharged, 4- cylinder gas engine just along for theride. Then it can tum around and doit again. You start covering a cus- tomers daily driving FINANCIAL EXPRESS  https epaper. financialexpress. entirely when you get into tech- nology like this, which changes the game, said Bart Herring, vice president of sales and product at Mercedes Benz USA.The SUV pro- vides 50 miles of electric range, what Herring calls the magic number. As electric car adoption con- tinuesin fitsand starts, autoexec utives havecreateda killerapp for the wide swath of American dri- vers that fall between EV-curious and EV-skeptical the super hybrid, Herrings magic numberis the average daily driving distance of one-car US household. In addition to the Mercedes, two other mod- els on the American market can handle that mileage entirely on electrons, both from Jaguar Land Rovers Range Rover marque. Lowerthat figureto 40 miles, and another seven models join the club. Consider them super- 4 January 2025 hybrids, which promise an almost emission-freeroad lifewitha gas- powered safety net. For the most part, they are no-compromise . models into the race that are eas- ier to reach, the Prius Prime 32,975 and the RAV4 Plug-in Hybrid 43,865. Ina first, Teslas annual China shipments from Shanghai dips TESLA RECORDED ITS first- ever drop in annual shipments from its Shanghai plant since the facility started mass pro- duction in 2020,a clearsign of the intensifying local competi- tion and lukewarm global demand. The automaker run by Elon Musk delivered 916,660 elec- tricvehicles from Shanghai, the vehicles with no-compro- mise price tags the super- hybrid version of the Mer- cedes GLC starts just shy of 60,000. Toyota, however, location ofits first factory out- side of the US, in 2024. This is down 3 from the year prior,accordingto prelim- inary data released by Chinas Passenger Car Association on Friday. Investors have started to cast doubt on Musks sales growth. REUTERS has snuck two longer-range comc76556064

3. Image: 097c1588-4bf1-4ea7-a4df-77ba98375e7b.jpg
   Extracted Text: GenAlI intensifies pricing pressure on IT sector PADMINI DHRUVARAJ Bengaluru, January 3 THE RAPID ADOPTION of genera- tive AI Genl is reshaping spend- ing patterns in the IT services industry, however, this technolog- ical shift is intensifying pricing pressures for providers. Despite the growing demand for GenAL-telated services, clients are increasingly demanding that efficiency gains be passed on to them, creating a challenging pric- ing environment. People are spending more money on new technologies like GenAl, but we nowhave to domore for the same amount, said Venka- traman Narayanan, managing director and CFO, Happiest Minds. Narayanan explained that as GenAl tools, such as copilot, enhance coding efficiency and reduce training time. Clients are leveraging these advancements to demand greater value for their investments. For example, if 20 people were previously required for a project lasting a year, the expec- tation now is that the same pro- ject can be delivered by 18 people KEEPING A COUNT GenAl adoptionis reshaping IT services spending patterns onas cost savings GenAl reduces project timelines but intensifies pricing pressures  Contract renewals see reduced deal values or expanded scopes Pega Perce cen DU eur eects sci Te due to efficiencies from genera- tive AI, he said. Further, while GenAl com- mands a premium as a skill set, dients are resistant to higher prices, seeing the same resources capable of delivering more, he added. Pareekh Jain, CEO, Pareekh Con- sulting, said, Clients are asking IT companies to pass on whatever efficiency benefits theyre getting fromGenAl. While clientsarewill- ingto pay more for GenAl resources ona per-hour basis, they expect FINANCIAL EXPRESS 2t 04 January 2025 Despite the growing demand for GenAl-related services, clients are increasingly demanding that efficiency gains be passed on to them SS overall productivity gains totrans- lateinto significant cost savings, he added. For instance, work that previ- ously took 100 hours might now take 70 hours. Per-hour pricing may be increasing, but overall deal https epaper. financialexpress. comc76555669 values are becoming margin-dilu- tive, Jain said. This trend is partic- ularly evident during contract renewals, where clients push for expanded scopes at the same pric- ing orreduced deal values. You can have the best pricing butstill make low margins. Clients expect higher savings now, espe- cially with GenAl. On renewals, they are coming with either the same scope at reduced values or increased scope atthe same price, Jain added. This increasingpricingpressure compels IT companies to pivot their strategies. Instead of relying on price hikes, firms are focusing on expanding customer relation- ships and increasing business vol- umesto sustain growth. The demand side offers oppor- tunities, but the supply side is wit- nessinganadjustment, with clients expecting companies to deliver more with fewer resources, Narayanan said. Julie Sweet, CEO, Accenture, also pointed to the competitive land- scape during thecompanys recent post-earnings call with analysts. Its a very competitive market, which is what weve been saying every quarter, and we did see lower pricing across the business, which has been pretty consistent. Clients haveconstrained spending, partic- ularly on small dealsshe said. Sweet further highlighted how Accenture isaddressing these chal- lenges by blending GenAl capabili- ties with initiatives to modernise. We have the talent, the full-stack engineers, the GenAl, and a plat- form called GenWizard, Clients are coming to us not to take off old applications but to modernise financialexp.epapnin ee  while taking costs down?

4. Image: 0e8716f5-03a9-4a7f-aca9-e0941bb48442.jpg
   Extracted Text: Bangladesh crisis offers new opportunities for Indian textile clusters RAVI DUTTA MISHRA i, January S AMID THE ONGOING eco- nomicand political tensions in Bangladesh, Indian exporting firms, particularly in the Tirupur clusters, are receiving higher enquiries from several global apparel brands, includ- ing Primark,Tesco, Decathlon, Duns,CPenney,GAP, Next,and Walmart, with order conver- sion expected for shipment by early 2025, Mithileshwar Thakur, Secretary General of the Apparel Export Promotion Council AEPC said. Dueto arecord surge inthe Us dollars value, Bangladesh has faced a sharp depletion in its foreign exchange reserves, which fellbelow 40billion for the first time in two years in July last year. With foreign exchangereserves sufficient to cover only four to five months of imports, Bangladesh has faced challenges in importing cotton and fabric, which ittra- ditionally sources from India. This comes amid tightening economic conditions in the neighbouring country. This crisisalsopresentsan opportunity for additional employment generation.Cap- turing just 10 per cent of Bangladeshs global apparel exports could directly create 5,00,000 jobs and indirectly generate an additional 1 mil- lion jobs in the Indian apparel sector. To seizethe opportunity presented by this develop- ment, India needs to urgently address issuesrelated to capac- ity augmentation and skill development, Thakur said. Most European brands sourc- ing from Bangladesh, particu- larly in the cost-sensitive seg- ment, are facing challenges in immediately shiftingorders to altemativedestinations,due to the distinct cost advantages offered by the country, such as low wage rates, duty-free FINANCIAL EXPRESS nr leshwar Thakur access, and its Least Developed Country LDC status. How- ever, several prominent brands have decided not to further increase their exposure to Bangladesh for sourcing, Thakur added. Notably, Bangladesh enjoysa 10-15 per cent cost advantage over India, as its apparel products benefit from duty-free access in the European Union, the UK, and Canada due to its LDC status. India can only bridge the duty disadvantage after it signsa free trade agreement with the EU and the UK. Cur- rently, several Indian manu- facturers have set up factories in Bangladesh due to Indias labour laws, concerns about unions, and the cost disadvan- tage. Thakur further said that global investments are driven by the political stability index, and the continued instability in Bangladesh presents a sig- nificant opportunity for India to attract investments that might otherwise flowtoneigh- bouring competing countries such as Vietnam, Cambodia, and Indonesia. However,with a strong focus on improving and upgrading infrastructure, capacity expansion, technol- ogy infusion, and compliance, Mon, 6 January 2025 India iswell-positioned tocap- italise on these redirected investments. We are also in talks with agencies and con- sulting firms to engage them inimproving productivityand efficiency in the operations of garment manufacturing com- panies, which can unlock the underutilised  production capacity inthe apparel sector, Thakursaid. OnPLI2.0 To capture market share and seize the opportunities arising from the reorientation of supply chains due to Bangladeshs crisis and the China1 factor,India must act swiftly to enhance its produc- tion capacity, shorten produc- tion cycletimes,and improve speed to market, in additionto focusing on workforceskilling and developing a robust com- pliance architecture, Thakur said. Accordingly, the PLI2.0 scheme for all types of gar- ments, irrespective of fibre, with a reduced investment threshold, should be intro- duced on an urgent basis. This scheme would foster invest- ment and scale up production capacity exponentially. For micro-industries, the Amended Technology Upgra- dation Funds Scheme ATUFS should be revived for technol- ogyupgradation,as PLI2.0will not cover micro-industries within its scope,he said. Thakur stated that due to the unavailability of quality Man-Made Fibre MME fabric from indigenous sources, gar- ment exporters are often dependent on fabric nomi- nated by foreign buyers. He added that the existing scheme of special advance authorisation for fabric imports not suitable forgar- ment exporters due to ever- changing market dynamics, designs, pattems, shapes,sizes, geography-specific consump- tionnorms. https epaper. financialexpress.comc765642 eS

5. Image: 0fd2c2fe-925b-4b05-bef1-693a6021b016.jpg
   Extracted Text: TECH CHARGE OF YOUR WELLNESS Wellness is today the biggest selling point of consumer technology, and brands are ina race to up the wellness quotient of their products The growing investment in wellness tech reflects an increasing recognition of the benefits of personalised, data-driven solutions for enhancing health outcomes VISHAL GONDAL, FOUNDER  CEO, GOQII With more people embracing a healthy lifestyle and proactive health management, the demand for wellness devices and wearables is only growing  AMIT KHATRI, CO-FOUNDER, NOISE get warnings totake necessary action pre- emptively isa gamechanger for people liv- ingwith diabetes. Connected glucose metres allow the datatobeseenby thepatient on thephone apps and can be squared via cloud to the treating physician as wellasafamilymem- beror caregiver. Digital health monitoring helpstrackand monitor theimpact of cit ferent food and lifestyle choices on ones sugar movement, says Dr Manoj Chawla, consultant diabetologyat PD Hinduja Hos- pital MRC,Khar, Mumbai. Life coach in an app The smart tech era started in the early 2000swhen health trackersbecame more sophisticatedand morewearable unlike the late 1990s when thermometers and weighing scales were the only health pre- ventive tracking devices. Over the years, brands such as Finnish smartwatch-maker Suunto,California-based Pebbleand Apple, followedby Garmin, Samsungand Google, have gained popularity in the wearables and healthtech market. These smart solutions have becomea one-stop shop for health and wellness needs offering arangeof services.Recently, smart wearables and health technology brand Amazfit launched Zepp App 9.With thelatest version of this app,thecompany introduces a new feature called Exertion Score, which customises workout plans and fitness recommendations based on theuserslevel ofexhaustion,recovery,and readiness, Ithelpsmonitor several keywell- ness metrics like heart health and sleep cycle among othermetrics. Similarly, boats recent launches, like the Wave Sigma 3, deliver advanced health insights. The brand has experi- enced steady growth in market share, especially in the smartwatch category, driven by in-house innovations like advanced healthcare features and gami- fied fitness challenges, all at accessible price points, empowering customers with accessible,high-quality wellness technol- ogy designed to enhance their daily lives. Ourfocuson combiningcutting-edge algorithms for accurate health tracking ensures that our products re tailored to meetourcustomersevolvingneeds Inno- vation remainsat the heart of whatwe do, and our launches continue to deliverand focusonhealthcaremetricslikedeepsleep monitoring, making comprehensive health and wellness tracking accessible to all, says Sameer Mehta, co-founder and CEO ofboAt. Apart from health insights,apps track- ing food habits, weight managementand nutritional planningarealso gaining pop- ularity. For instance, TruthIn, a B2C- focused health and wellness tech plat- form, providesin-depthinformation on product food labels analyses nutrient profiles, additives, process- ing levels, individual health informa- tion and ingredients to assign a health score and personalised insights.We are committed tomakelabel transparency the norm which is now seeing widespread adoption and awareness, says Ravi Putrevu, cofounder  CEO of Natfirst, the parent firm of TruthIn, which has over 450,000 downloads with a goal to reach 1.5 million downloads by the fiscal year- end. Serving 85,000 monthly active users since it launched in July 2023, the app is growing at an average rate of 10-15 month-on-month. Similarly, personalised fitness and nutrition plan app Fittr provides insights from internationally certified coaches. Founded in 2016, it has over 6 million downloadsand 350,000transformations. FINANCIAL EXPRESS uP 09 January 2025 he It has recently launched the Fittr Hart smart ring for real-time insights into vital metrics like heart rate, sleep quality, and recovery.As the demand for personalised health solutions growbacked by data showing a significant rise in healtft-con- scious behaviourswere focused on attracting consumers through tailored programmes and community support, making fitnessaccessibleand engaging for everyone! says itendra Chouksey, founder and CEO, Fittr, who has seen over 16 growth in revenue between AprilandOcto- berthisyearascompared tolastyear. Ona growth curve Last year, Chinese consumerelectronics https epaper.. financialexpress. comc76560950 BOOM TIME FOR WEARABLES 1.8 trn Size ofthe global consumer wellness market 34 Percentage growth of the indian wearable market in 2023, recording 134.2 millon units 74 Percentage growth of smartwatch shipmentsin Indi 2023, recording 53.2 milion units India Worlds largest smartwatch market Source McKinsey  Company, IDG Counterpoint We of consumers have purchased a fitness wearable at some point intime 13 ofwearable users used. theirdevices more often in 2024 than they did the previous year 73 ofconsumersindicated an openness to using a wearable in the future Source Mekinsey Companys Future of Wellness survey 2024 companyXiaomis wearabletech achieved remarkable growth, with revenue in TWS true wireless stereo more than doubling from the previous year and the smart- watch segment achieving nearlytwicethe growth, driven by increasing demand for lifestyle enhancingwearables.Wereded- icated to seamlessly integrating wellness- focused innovationsinto daily ife,making wellness both accessible and practical for everyoneysaysa Xiaomi spokesperson. Similarly, Bose-backed gadget and wearables brand Noise posted an operat- ing revenue of 1,430.8 crore in FY24, marginallyhigherthanthe 1,426.4 crore that it clocked a yearago,as per data from RoC filings. Our NoiseFit App connects over 10 million userswhereusersencour- ageoneanotherin theirwellness journeys. With more people embracing a healthy lifestyle and proactive health manage- ment, thedemand for such devicesis only growing, says Amit Khatri, co-founder of Noise,which holds thelargest 25.7mar- ket share in Indiassmartwatch sector. Health-tracking products andservices arewhat companies arebetting on in abig way. Recently,consumerelectronics brand Samsung added a medications tracking feature on its Samsung Health app, allow- ing userstokeep track of theirprescribed or over-the-counter medication regime and adverse reactionsfrom drug-to-drug inter- actionsandother safety guidance.Thefea- ture helps in tracking medication adher- ence consistency for hypertension, diabetes, PCOS, PCOD and other chronic diseasesthat requiretimely doses. With the addition of medications for India in the Samsung Health app, we beliove users will be able to manage their medications conveniently,improveadher- ence, and ultimately maintain better healthsaid Kyungyun Roo, MD, Samsung Research Institute, Noida. Similarly, fitness brand Cult formerly known as Cult.fit launched its smart weighingscalesthat measure over 50 para- meters for body composition, fat percent- age,musclemass, hydration levelsandobe-

6. Image: 14f7bfdc-035f-433f-8813-47cbb4b1788b.jpg
   Extracted Text: EYE LONGER DURATION ON RATE CUT HOPES Banks cut down on short-term bonds ANUPREKSHAJAIN Mumbai, January 1 AMID TIGHTLIQUIDITY condi- tions in the banking system, banks have cut down on their investmentsin short-term gov- ernment bonds, according to dealers. At thesametime,banks areshiftingtowardsbuildingup positionsin thelongerduration papers due to rising bets on the Reserve BankofIndiaRB cut- tingratesin February. Market participants expect rates of T-bills and short-term bonds to remain sticky unless liquidity conditionsease. Alargesectionofthemarket isanticipatingacut in the policy rate by the central bank in Feb- ruary. Generally, when the rate cut happens, long-term bonds tend to perform better than shorter duration papers because investors lockin a higherinter- estrateforalong periodoftime. For the ultra long-duration papers with amatutity of and above 30 years have seen firm demand from insurance com- panies, pension funds, provi- dent funds, and even some mutual funds as well. Mutual funds, usually, dont prefer to lockin moneyin ultralong dura tion papers. However, with the increasing chances ofa domes- tic rate cut, fund houses have alsotaken longpositionsinultra longbonds, said thedealers. Duration papers are pre- ferred because overnight rates FINANCIAL EXPRESS MARKET MOVE Market participants expect rates of bills, short-term bonds toremain sticky mAlarge section of market is anticipating arate cut by RBlin February Preece eC CMTC Cerca arehoveringaround6.90lev- els,consequentlyT-billratesare high. Initially, there was a thought that short-term yields would fallfaster than long-term butdueto funding crunch, mak- ing money on short-terms papersis difficult said trader ata private bank. Despite the cut in the cash reserveratioCRR,theliquidity deficit in the banking system crossed 2 lakh crore.Interven- tion in the foreign exchange market isa key reason for tight liquidity as the central bank is saidto selling dollarstostem the depreciation of therupee. Looking ahead, the struc- tural liquidity is expected to remain under pressure as the rupee will continue to face the heat of an elevated dollar. This mayprompt RBItointervenein Sat, 04 January 2025 https epaper . financialexpress. comc7655355 a el the spot market, furtherwiping out the liquidityin the system. Meanwhile, long-term bonds are not vulnerable to the liquidity conditions of the bank- ing system, ratherthey aremore susceptible toanychangein the ratecutcycle. NewRBI governor Sanjay Malhotrais considered positive for themarket and per- ceived to be dovish in his approach, thereby boosting investors expectations of a domesticrate cut. Banks investment strategy forlong termbondsisimpacted byratecut expectations.Aslong as the expectationsare intact, duration will going to perform well. When the liquidityis tight andratecutbetsarestilion, Iwill continuewithdurationpapers. said VRC Reddy, deputy GM- treasury, at KarurVysya Bank. no0zO

7. Image: 153b9a74-3ae6-4767-989c-f94750a37537.jpg
   Extracted Text: Weakening rupee will benefit export-oriented firms Mobius FE BUREAU Mumbai, January 3 WHILE A WEAKENING rupee is a dampener for foreign investment inflows into India, export-oriented companies could benefit from the fall in the local currency, as they become more competitive against China, Mark Mobius, chairman of Mobius Emerging Opportunities Fund, said on Friday. would look at export-oriented companies to begin with because of the currency situation, and also because India is gradually becoming more competitive against the Chi- nese exporters, Mobius told busi- ness newschannel. Infosys, for example, which exports alotof software, is going to becomemorecompetitivebecause of Sat, FINANCIAL EXPRESS ithe epaper. Financialexpress .con76555672 Where else can Fetter on eso.  Beas pintominteder ly sseeyiyer atmos s theweakening rupee, hesaid.Weare on the cusp of more exports coming out of India not only in the software area but alsoinmanufacturing 04 January 2025 Mobius also expects the Indian markets and domestic industries to benefit from the Trump administra tion more than any other country, as IndiaisthenaturalchoiceafterChina for manufacturing, He also expect Prime Minister Narendra Modis reforms to result ina good partner- ship with the US. Where else caninvestorsgo over- seas? India comes up all the time because of the incredible growth of thecountry,thereformsthataretak- ing place under the current govern ment, and because there is so much value in the market, Mobius said. My personal desire is to be 50 investedin India,he said. Mobius added that many of the stocks in India that have a US dol- lar income component will con- tinue to do good.

8. Image: 156f1689-d2b2-4d3e-9de2-d1655ab4d0bf.jpg
   Extracted Text: MUKESH JAGOTA New Delhi, January 2 THE GOVERNMENT ON Thursday announced the formation of apanel of experts to revise the base year of Wholesale Price Index WPI and suggest a road map for switching overto Producer Price Index PPI. The working group for revision ofbaseyearofWPito 2022-23 from 2011-12 andto decide on computa- tional methodologyto be adopted for WPI and PPI will be headed by Niti Aayog member Ramesh Chand andwill have 17 othermembers.The working group has been asked to submit its final report to the eco- nomic adviser at the Departmentfor Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade DPIIT within 18 months. FINANCIAL EXPRESS To revise WPI base year as well Niti Aayog member Ramesh Chand will lead committee Panel to suggest road map for Producer Price Index Till the PPI stabilises, both WPI and PPI will run concurrently. All major economies like the US, China, Japan, Germany and France use PPI to measure the average changes in prices received by domestic producers for their out- put. Globally PPI tracks prices of both goods and services. The panel announced on Thurs- day will have economists from the government, rating agencies, asset management companies and banks,and representatives from the governmentand the Reserve Bank. The panel will also suggest the commodity basket of WPI and PPI for the new base 2022-23 in the light of structural changes in the economy.Itwill reviewthe existing system of price collection and sug- Fri, 03 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress. SHIFT TO A BETTER SYSTEM In 2014, aworking group was set upto determine the process for amove from WPIto PPI, but no decision was taken on its report, submitted in 2017 m Another panel was set up in 2019 for revision of WPI base year and to recommenda road map for moving to PPI from WPI Ramesh Chand, member, Niti Aayog gest changes forimprovement. The working group will also decide on thecomputational methodology to beadopted for WPland PPI. PPIis different from WPI in the comc76548498 way that it measures the average change in prices received by pro- ducers and excludes indirect taxes. WPI captures the price changes at the point of bulk transactions and mayinclude some taxes and trans- portation costs. PPI also removes multiple counting bias inherent in WPI. The shedding of additional costs on products imposed by taxes andtransportation makes itamore accurate gauge of pricemovements. Weight of an item in WPI is based on net traded value whereas in PPI weights are retrieved from supply use tables. PPI also includes services while WPI only has goods. The methodology for compila- tion of PPI has been approved by the technicaladvisory committee onsta- tistics of pricesand costof living-The panel will suggest further improve- ment in compilation and presenta- tion. The PPI has been discussed for the past 20 years when its idea was first mooted. Whiletheneed tomove to PPI from WPI was expressed in 2003 itwasonly in 2014 that awork- ing group was set up to determine the methodology and data require- ments to move ahead. The report of the groupcamein 2017 butnodeci- sion was taken onit. In 2019, the government had constituteda working group forrevi- sion of the current series of WP! that has 2011-12 asits baseyear.The task beforethe groupwasto suggest anew base yearfor WPI and suggest addi tionsand deletions of commodities in the basket of goods whose prices are tracked to draw the index. The working group was also empowered to recommend a road map for mov- ing to PPI from WPI. After many dis- cussions, anotherworking group was announced on Thursday.

9. Image: 16d19c83-04ec-4ac5-b2bf-1ff9d48b2574.jpg
   Extracted Text: DigiLocker glitch sparks backup demand JATIN GROVER New Delhi, January 3 THE DIGILOCKER OUTAGE, which disrupted e-KYC processes forfintech firms,bro- kers, and other businesses, has led to calls from companies and tech experts to improve the resilience of digital publicinfra- structure DPI to avoid similar issues inthe future. They said the government should consider implementa- tion of redundancy systems, by developingabackup, or failover system for DigiLocker that ensures that businesses can continue functioning even in case of technicalfailures. Apower outage at thedata centre of the governments National Informatics Centre NIC on December 3 1in Delhi led to disruptions at the Dig- iLocker for the next two days. DigiLocker is a cloud-based FINANCIAL EXPRESS CLOUD STORAGE MDigiLocker outage disrupted fintech KYC processes Experts call for backup systems in DPI AW YTITETy 9.41 bn documents  BH Digilocker restored after two- day service outage DigiLocker has 434,53 mn users, Premiere 4 eerie a Omnicard saw 50 pees user onboarding platform for storage, sharing and verification of documents, and certificates. The outage also affected many govern- ment websites, leading to a slow or no response. Officials saidthedatacentre powerout- age has been restored. The issue, however, slowed down user onboarding for com- panies who are required to do digital KYC before signing up users toverifytheiridentity. Sat, 04 January 2025 We got thousands of sup- port tickets because of delayed KYC approvals. DigiLocker has restored its services as of now,said Neeraj Khandelwal, co-founderof CoinDCX. As of December 30, 2024, DigiLockerhas 434.53 million registered usersand has issued 9.41 billiondocuments. Abhishek Saxena, co- founderand MD of Omnicard,a corporate expense manage- https epaper. financialexpress. comc76555793 ment company, said, While it was not a complete shutdown, there was a 50 drop in onboarding of users due to the DigiLockerissue Accordingto Saxena outages are common in the technology world but itis really important forthegovernmenttohavemore such platforms in place so that DigiLocker is not overloaded. Notably, DPI stacks such as UPI, DigiLocker,andAadhaar,among others haveso farbeen effective inbringing digital servicesto the masses ina cost-effective and timelymannerInitiativessuch as DigiLocker have shown the fundamental impact that DPI use cases can have on efficien- cies in our digital economy. However, such DPI initiatives need to have exceptional cyber resilience, security and redun- dancies in place, said Dhruv Garg, partner at Indian Gover- nanceand Policy Project.

10. Image: 1cd83eea-c0c0-4a40-acad-673fdbe4aa19.jpg
   Extracted Text: Iran minister in Delhi for talks to boost ties, trade SHUBHAJIT ROY New Delhi, January 2 DAYS BEFORE DONALD Trump returns to the Oval Office, Majid Takht-Ravanchi, Irans deputy foreign minis- ter,has reached New Delhi for talks Friday with external affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign secretary Vikram Misti, Iran is looking at increasingbilateral tradewith India, including via the Chabaharport. From tourism to agricul- ture, Tehran wants to boost ties with Delhi and bilateral talks will take place before the Trump administration takes charge on January 20. Sources said Iran would also like to get a sense from Indian officials on dealing with sanctions  India has stopped buying oil from Iran due tothe threat of sanctions, but has continued to buy oil from Russia despite sanc- tions. Atop Iranian government source said while thecircum- stances of Russiaand Iran are different, these questions merit discussions. We dont want to deal with the past, but want to look into the future, the source said. For Tehran, which has suf- fered from the economic sanctions imposed during Trumps first term, increasing FINANCIAL EXPRESS Majid Takht-Ravanchi, Iran deputy foreign minister trade with India is very important.Tehran hopes to diversify to other areas, including agriculture and petrochemical _ products through the Chabahar port. Iran is also looking at an increase in Indian tourist travel to Iran, and wants to facilitate that. While itsa peo- ple-to-people exchange, it increases economic activity. Tehranalsowantsan increase in the number of Iranians travelling to India. Tehran, which is also preparing forthe Trump 2.0 administration, believes Washingtons maximum pressure campaign against Iran has failed, While it has caused hard- ship to the people of Iran, the policy has failed, the Iranian Fri, 03 January 2025 https epaper . financialexpress. comc7654945! government source said, adding that theworld hasalso changed since the first Trump term. ranis now cooperating with Saudi Arabia, and has developed closer ties with both Russia and China. The regional situation is also going to be discussed with the Indian government. The Iranian source expressed concern over the turn of events in Gaza, Lebanon and Syria. Tehran has expressed con- cern over the security situa- tion in Syria where President Bashar-al Assad was ousted by rebels. Those who are in charge in Syria dont have a good track record,the source said, referring to rebel groups tracingtheirroots tol Qaeda and ISIS. Whether they have changed or not,wewill haveto see, the source said. Tehran feels that terrorism can flourish again and can be felt intheregion, andwantsto discuss these issues with offi- cials in Delhi. It is a serious issue, and we are living in a very uncertain neighbour- hood, the source said. Iran is also building ties with Russia, and officials said that they are going to sign a major partnership pact with Russia at the end of January. Tehran also views China asa very important partner which has economic power sptead across the world.

11. Image: 1d212958-0179-4b1f-937d-5fd0bf67d245.jpg
   Extracted Text: Advertorial Sonalika The Impossible Indian Success Story x Sh. L. D. MITTAL k Chairman - Sonalika Group j India is blessed with visionaries whose relentless efforts have left an indelible mark and touched the heights of success. In a candid conversation, the visionary tractor titan, Sh. L. D, Mittal, Chairman of Sonalika Tractors, shares how his dream of empowering the farming community became the cornerstone of this unbelievable Indian success story. Q. Sonalikas growth story is unbelievable. What is the success mantra behind this? Sonalika was bom ina small non-industrial town of Hoshiarpur in Punjab and has risen to be in the lst of Fortune 500 India 2024 Largest Companies with an overall tumover of estimated US 1.1Bn, Thisis beyond imagination, yet true, What brought ushereis a strong belief of providing global technologies to our farmers to ease their work and enhance farm productivity, irrespective of the scale of operations, Since inception the foundation of Sonalika is built on 3 philosophies - Offer best product and services to our customers, prioritise stakeholder interest and do business with highest standards of ethics and take no shortcuts for excellence. Inthe early days when we started manufacturing threshers, we were clear that we had to give the best products, often making cost a secondary consideration. The approach helped us to win the confidence of the farmers and understand their needs intimately. We were overwhelmed with their response and they requested us to make superior quality tractors as well. This encouraged us to enter the tractors business in1995. There hhas been no looking back ever since with Sonalika winning the hearts of milions of farmers across the country and globally with its customer-centric approach to provide high quality tractors, backed by a reliable service and spares support We made this tougher by imposing our own self-discipline in business principles and conviction to grow with our self- fesources. The ride was not easy and, often, there were questions of survival However, on each occasion we emerged stronger by sticking to our Turnover US 1.1 bn A Debt-Free Approach since inception principle of remaining ce ineee debt-free. This has pilesophles - helped us in thinking best products  services, differently and doing Brioritizing stakeholders sings differently that has  an ethical approach  made us self-reliant. We with no shortcuts. started with no manufacturing plant or RD, but a firm belief that what we were doing is right as  firmly believe that Koshish karne walon ki kabhi haar nahi hot This approach has kept us focused in design and develop our own farm technologies to offer varied solutions for each customer segment The sucess of our customers has led the company to record numerous milestones in the journey so far that cannot be expressed in words, We take pride in being the No. 1 tractor export brand from India, operating under a proud Indian name, tractors a month today. We are always close to our customers and ensure that we understand their growing needs and Quickly improve our products to meet the requirement, During the initial years our requests to our suppliers for modifications in engines and other aggregates were not entertained by them on account of our iow volumes. That is when we decided to build our own capabilites to make tractor components in-house, be it engines, transmissions, sheet metal, gear box and so on to ensure that the necessary modifications are done quickly and needs of our customers are futfled, Eventually, the demand for our heavy-duty tractors kept increasing exponentially and became so high that we decided to expand our manufacturing prowess which today is the Worlds No.1 fully integrated tractor plant in Hoshiarpur. This state-of-the-art manufacturing plant rolls out 1 tractor every 2 minutes, backed by robotic operations and automated production lines which are flexible to make different engines and transmission on the same assembly line, Till date, the plant remains unmatched in its capacities. Today, we develop over 2,000 models catering to specific needs of domestic and export markets. el NL, Meron awe INDIAS LARGEST 500 COMPANIES -FORTUNE 500 INDIA 2024 Ut La rather than being a contract manufacturer to an outside brand Our exports market share is nearly double of the next competitor with presence over 150 countries. In India - the worlds biggest tractor market, we are the 3rd largest tractor brand that strives for excellence in every aspect of the agriculture sector and consistently surpasses industry growth, astatementof rustthat customers have in us. Q. How did you make sure to deliver the best solutions to the customers and stay true to your philosophy? We have continued to strengthen our belief to deliver the best in everything that we do irrespective to the scale of business - be it the initial volume of 100 tractors a month to nearly 15,000 nag  Fee eC We continue to work closely with our vendors and handhold them in setting up their manufacturing base in Hoshiarpur. This has helped us to create a complete business ecosystem around our factory. To further enhance our technical expertise and offer the best solutions to customers, we tied up with global companies such as Renault  Yanmar.  feel delighted to see happy faces of the farming community and it keeps me inspired to do everything that can to simplify theirlives and support and make their life better. Delivering top quality products and services that consistently exceed customer expectations has been our No. 1 priority. We stand committed to innovate continuously and address every farmers needs and keep refining our strategies to deliver supreme customer satisfaction, Q. What is the philosophy of Sonalika towards its stakeholders? Sonalika believes that everyone who is associated with usis a part of One Big family and everyone is important.. One case in pointis the COVID-19 pandemic that tested industries globally, and Sonalika was no exception. However, Sonalika stood as a shining example of resilience and care for its partners. We prioritized employees by paying their salaries in advance during uncertain times and did not lay-off a single worker. Every supplier was paid-off on time and even in advance so that they too could take care of their employees and business needs. Sonalika takes pride in its family-oriented culture, which has helped us to navigate challenging times with unity andstrength. Our decisions and actions are guided by the core values of integrity, empathy and accountability. These shared values uphold ethical standards, fostering trust and credibility for our stakeholders, creating an all-inclusive environment of transparency and commitment. The philosophy has gone a long way in building a performance led work culture that believes in teamwork and its only purpose is to improve every day. We have examples of employees who started with us and are head of departments now, dealers who started as small businessmen and have tumed into business tycoons and suppliers who have grown big with us. The Sonalika family is built on trust and that converts into joyalty and dedication towards our business. Numbers will keep growing, what is more important for us is our belief in our people, We are proud of the family of over 8,000 employees and over 20,000 vendors  dealers. Sonalika is commited to be a trustworthy partner of over 17 lakh farmers globally Itnot only provides best in class tractors but also believes in transparency in its dealings with the farmers. It is the only company that displays its tractor prices con its website unlike many other tractor companies. The company has also ventured into NBFC services to assist farmers with financing options. Q. What is your message to aspiring entrepreneurs? Ae jazba-e-dil agar main chahun har cheez mugammil ho jaaye, manzil ke liye do kadam chalun aur samnemanzilaa jaye  these words by Mirza Ghalib inspire me work hard every day and yet believe that there is no shortcut to success, Focus on hard work and execution over mere ideas and presentation skils. True success lies in persistence and action rather than waiting for external validation or funding. Take ownership of your future! In conclusion, we believe that farmers prosperity is integral to the growth of not just the tractor industry but also the economy as a whole. Sonalika remains committed to its vision of empowering farmers and achieving sustainable growth,  believe my journey willbe futfling when Kisan Ka beta bhi Kisan bana chahega. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Wed, 08 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress. comc76583889

12. Image: 1d93bc_828126_6.jpg
   Extracted Text:  SOARING AMBITION Like father, like daughter IAF recruit to train as pilot at airbase once commanded by her dad Flying Officer ala Singh centre with her father Air Commodore Ran Singh and mother Komal Singh at the Air Force Academy. Hvderabad. HT PHOTO Rahul Singh lettershindustantimes.com NEW DELHI The daughter of one of the countrys top fighter pilots has joined the Indian Air Forces fighter stream, and will soon head for further training at a premier airbase in the eastern sector that was earlier com- manded by her father, a serving air commodore a rare occur- rence in the air force that opened the fighter stream to women only eight years ago, officials aware of the matter said on Wednesday. Muskaan Sineh. 24. has been. commissioned as a flying officer in the IAF. Her father Air Com- modore Ran Singh holds a key post in the Air Headquarters in Delhi. She was among the 204 cadets including five women assigned to the fighter stream who graduated from the elite Air Force Academy AFA, Dundi- gal, Hyderabad, on December 14 after the successful culmination of their pre-commissioning training in the flying and ground duty branches of the IAF, the worlds fourth largest air force. There have been several instances of fathers and sons Comuelins6

13. Image: 20498863-605e-4fce-a221-3968d55e6849.jpg
   Extracted Text: Many hits, a few misses DPDP Rules signal MeitYs balanced approach, but some concerns still need to be addressed HE GOVERNMENTS APPROACH towards implementing the Digital Personal Data Protection DPDP Act broadly reflects a pragmaticand balanced strategy, considering the complexities oftransitioningindustriestoa new legal framework. Oneofthe most commendable steps isthe 45-day window provided for publiccon- sultation. This time frame, coupled with the decision to release the draft rulesafter the Christmasand New Year holidays,allowskeystakeholders, particularly global technology firms often operating with reduced capac- ities during this period, an adequate opportunity to participate mean- ingfully in the feedback process. The governments nuanced stance on data localisation is anothersen- sible measure. Rather than imposing blanket restrictions, agovernment- appointed committee will evaluate localisation requirements on a sec- toral basis, ensuring that critical personal data remains within the countrysbordersonlywhen absolutely necessary.This selectiveapproach balances the need for safeguarding sensitive information with the oper- ational realities of global businesses. For example, if the health ministry is of the view that health record of citizens should not goout of the coun- try, the suggestion will be reviewed through consultationsbefore imple- mentation, mitigating the risk of disruptions to cross-border data flows. Equally prudentis the Acts provision for parentalconsentin processing childrens data. By requiring data fiduciaries to verify parental consent for minorsunder 18 through digital tokens, the government addresses the vul- nerabilities children face in the digital world. This model strikes a balance between safeguarding childrens privacyandallowingaccessto digital plat- forms. Itisa more practical alternative to Australias restrictive approach, where children up toa certainage are barred from accessing social media. The DPDP Actalso incorporates mechanisms to ensure transparency and accountability. Provisions for voluntary disclosure of data breaches incen- tivise organisations to proactively report incidents, fostering trust in the data protection ecosystem. Simultaneously, significant penalties for non- compliance underscore the seriousness of safeguardingpersonal data.Addi- tionally, the thought that a two-year transition period should be given to businesses to comply with the Act reflects the governments commitment toensuringa smooth shift tothenew framework. Electronics and information technology IT minister Ashwini Vaish- naw has clarified in the past that the DPDPAct adheres to the principles established by the Puttaswamy judgment, which upholds the balance between privacy and transparency. Existing laws mandating disclosure of publicservantsinformation will remain unaffected, addressing fears of diminished accountability. Its a fact that by fostering collaboration with stakeholders, prioritising sectoral needs, and adopting practical measures like parental consent mechanisms, the ministry of electronics and IT MeitY has takena significant step toward ensuring robust data protection while minimising disruptions to industry. But there isa flip side as well. Retention of broad discretionary powers under the guidelines leads to policy unpredictability, leaving too much room for the government toact on acase-by-case basis. This could hamper compliance efforts, asstakeholders struggle with unclearrulesand incon- sistent enforcement.The ambiguity and potential legal challenges may benefit law firms, while businesses and stakeholders face heightened com- pliance costs and regulatory unpredictability. Also, the entire process can betime-consuming, while data protection hasbecome an urgent need for the citizens. Overall, such debates areinevitableand healthy,and the gov- ernment would dowell to fine-tune the new rules further after extensive discussions with stakeholders. Afterall, a lot isat stakeasthenewrules will bringin a massive change inhowIndia viewsand usesthe internet. FINANCIAL EXPRESS 0? 06 January 2025 eS nuoreies https epaper. financialexpress

14. Image: 250f116b-0c66-4c18-8ed5-f433ef1fdd7d.jpg
   Extracted Text: al diets during the ffects. Heres why NUTRITION FACTS ALMONDS Excellent source of vitamins, 82, magnesium, phosphorus, potassium, along with fibre. Rich in healthy fats and antioxidants WALNUTS Great source of alpha- linolenic acid ALA significantly high in omega-3 fatty acids CASHEWS Rich in protein, healthy fats, including mono-unsaturated  poly-unsaturated fats,  antioxidants such as polyphenol PISTACHIOS Especially rich in antioxidants, lutein and zeaxanthin, high in fibre RAISINS. Contain helpful soluble fibres, good source of potassium, antioxidants also contain valuable nutrients, such as vitamin C, selenium, and zine DATES High in fibre, antioxidants good source of potassium, magnesium, iron, vitamin B6 salted nuts are used. Excessive intake of nuts and dry fruits like raisins and dates canalso elevateblood sugar levels. Hence, itis advised tocat in moderation toavoid too much calories and fat. Heres what Neeti Sharma, head, dietetics and nutritionist, Marengo Asia Hospital in Gurugram, suggests almonds, walnuts, pistachios, cashews, and raisins arehealthy nuts with diverse health benefits if eaten in moderation. Almonds are rich in vitamin E and magnesium, so it helps for healthy skin and reduces stress. Six to eight almonds dailyareideal Similarly, walnuts contain Omega-3 fatty acids that aid in brain and heart FINANCIAL EXPRESS health, and three to four halves are sufficient. Pistachios help in weight management andofferantioxidants, and 20 to 30 kernels are recommended. Cashews, full of zinc, boost the immunity system four to five of them daily are enough. Raisins help digestion and inctease energy one to two tablespoons are sufficient. Healthy eating Ifyou roast almonds, it enhances the vitamin E absorption and improves digestion. Pecans, when roasted, bring out the natural oils, making antioxi- dants more bioavailable. Hazelnuts, if roasted, make vitamin E and copper absorption enhanced. When you soak cashews, it reduces the fatty acids and makes the magne- sium, minerals and copper more absorbable. They can also be taken raw or roasted for energy and snacking but avoidthe fryingand addition of moresalt as they could lead to reduced health benefits, says Dr Sharma of Marengo hospital, Gurugram. Pistachios, when soaked, becomesoft and areeasily digestible. Walnutsmaybe taken raw to obtain the benefits of omega-3 fatty acids. Roasted lightly, pis- tachioscanalsobe flavoured withoutlos- ing significant nutrients,Alsomake sure tostorethesedryfruits in such awaythat their nutritional value is preserved. You can consume dry fruits with warm liq- uids like tea and milk to enhance diges- tion, says Dr Grover of Max, Vaishali. Dry fruits and nuts are very easy to include in your winter diet to become healthy. Soaked almonds and raisins can help jump-start your day for some cenergy.Add chopped walnuts, pistachios, or cashews in oatmeal, porridge, or yoghurt. These nuts can be incorporated in homemade energy bars, laddus, or gra- nolaforyoursnacking. Mix dry fruits, like dates and figs, with warm milk, perfect for a healthy drink to take to bed. Add chopped nuts over salads or soups forcrunch. Also, the timing of having dry fruits is important. They can be consumed throughout the day, but ideally in the morning or as a mid-morning snack. Avoid ingesting them late atnightsince they may disturb digestion, says Dr Gupta of Fortis hospital. Meanwhile, nut allergy is one of the most prevalent food allergies in both children and adults, with some experi- encing severe, life-threatening responses when exposed to nuts, says Dr Gupta of Fortis. Thesymptoms of a nutallergycan range from minor to severe. For some, even tiny quantities of nuts can be fatal. So, if you have a nut allergy, you should educate yourself, take care to minimise exposure,and knowwhat to do if you get symptoms. Look for alternative foods that people with tree nut allergies can at, suich as pine nuts. Soaking dried fruitsovernightmight make themsofter and more digestible, adds Dr Gupta of Fortis hospital. The safe options, says Dr Grover of Max, Vaishali,are dry fruits likealmonds, dates, prunes and raisins as they do not cause such allergic reactions. He further advises to be careful while selecting the nuts and dry fruits. Try almonds, cashews, and pistachios. tartwith small portions andyou mayincreasethequan- tity of the portion aftermonitoringyour body reactions. Avoid keeping dry fruits inasingle box, tryto keep them individ- ually so that you can prevent any acci- dental exposure, headds. Sun, 5 January 2025 https epaper.financialexpress.com

15. Image: 299d81e6-cf2b-4ae7-b822-f59c7c7c1b5f.jpg
   Extracted Text: The Russell Glacier descending toward a lake of its own meltwater near Kangerlussuaq, Greenland wr Worrying signs from the Arctic regions and the Equator that drives air Scientists say fires in currentsthat move high andlow pressure . systemsaround the globe. Major changes. the region could have ti the Arctic will most likely have far.  reaching consequences, thoughscientists major consequences cant yet predict exactly what they willbe, ___ The thawing Arcticis also shaking up DAVID GELLES geopolitics Withseaicemelting,newship- pinglanesareopeningup.Asaresult, Rus INA YEAR FULL of troubling signs that __siaand China have sought to project their Earthsdimateisrapidlychanging,someof _influencein theregionin recentyears. That the most alarming signals came fromthe _hasled Canada tostepupits military pres- Arctic. The thawing tundra hasbecomea __ ence in the region and seek to work more source of greenhouse gas emissions, closely with the US. Meanwhile, tensions insteadoflockingaway carbon Seaicelev- _betweenRussiaand the Westhaveresulted elsare nearhistoric lows. Fires are getting _inscientistsbeingshut out ofthe Russian worse.Surfaceairtemperaturesarenear _Arctic,compromising efforts ocollectreli- recordhighs.Andpolarbearsarein rouble. able data on one of the largest and most Theres alot goingon inthe Arctic significant swaths of the Arctic. said Brendan Rogers,anArcticscientistat sear the Woodwell ClimateResearchCenterin Have we hita tipping point? Falmouth, Massachusetts. Theres Scientists cant yet say that the big changes in the rivers, and changes being observed in the with salmon,andbigchanges Arctic are irreversible, or that inthe atmosphere, andwith ds they are accelerating and sea ice,and ocean produc- COULD compounding. And other tivity, and the fauna EXPERIENCE ITS permafrostareasarestilinet Onearea of particular  FIRSTDAYTHATIS carbon sinks, or natural concernistheincreasein  PRAGTICALLYICE setvoirs that store more wildfires. Fireseason is get-  carbon than they emit. Stil, tinglonger, firesare burning things are moving fast up bigger and hotter, and more north. The Arctic is warming fires are being ignited by light- fourtimesasfast asthe rest of the ning strikes. Rogers said that, because planet. In the waters that connect the of climate change,thefires arehappen- _Atlanticand the PacificOceansinnorthern ingtoo quickly,too much Canada, sea icewas the lowesteverrecorted Another point ofacuteconcem Parts _intheperiod from October of 2023 to Sep- ofthe Arcticthathave long stored carbon _tember.In Canadas Western Arctic, thaw- arenow turning into sources of carbon. _ingpermafrostistriggering landslides and Recently,theNationalOceanicandtmos-_ makingitanearcertaintythatsome villages phericAdministrationannouncedthatthe _willhavetomove.Thissummer,theeastern Arctictundra has in recent decades been _half of Hudson Bay, home to the worlds adding morecarbondioxidetotheatmos- _ most-studied polar bears, was ice-free a pherethanithas removed? monthearlier than usual. . Agroup of scientistsalso recently wamed What happens in the Arctic that the Arctic could experienceits first day doesnt stay in the Arctic that is practically ice-free by 2027. And, for Awarmer Arctichas the potentialto the 1 1thyearina row, the Arcticwas more alterglobalweatherpatterns.itsthetem- _ abnormallywarmthanthe worldasa whole. perature gradient between the polar NYT FINANCIAL EXPRESS Su 05 January, 2025 eS muoress https epaper. financialexpress.co

16. Image: 2c3e3b58-2573-422c-a68c-da00f30284ed.jpg
   Extracted Text: AROUND 1.27 MMSCMD OF GAS HAS BEEN REALLOCATED Govt boosts gas supplies to CGD firms, stocks rise FE BUREAU New Delhi, January 3 THE AFTEREFFECT SHARE PRICES OF City Gas Int-day on BSE 2, Jan 3 DistributionCGDcompanies, _Indraprastha Gas Mahanagar Gas Gujarat Gas ineluding Indraprastha Gas, 449 ao  8848 9254 - ahanagar Gas, and Gujara oe ss ee 191 Gas,surged byup to 6onFri- 450.  1330 428 13165  590 be 514.15 day, recovering from intraday lows.The rally came afterthe 440 oilministry announced reallo- cation of natural gas, diverting supplies from LPG production to city gas retailers to meet the demand for compressed 410 natural gas CNG and piped cooking gas. SharepricesofIndraprastha ural Gas Corporation ONGC touseeitherhigher-priced gas cut supplies of domestic gasto Gas rose by asmuch as 6.19 _ toreduce gas supplied for LPG produced from new fields or _ city gas retailersbyas much as toahigh of 453.35 onthe BSE production. Of the total 2.55 rely on imported liquefied 409 in viewof limited output before closing at 441.20,up _millionstandardcubicmeters natural gas LNG to replace _leadingcitygas retailersto hike 3.35fromthepreviousclose. _perday mmscmdofgasused _thelostvolumes.The ministry _ CNG prices by 82-3 per kg. The Mahanagar Gas stock for LPG production, 1.27 alsoordered pro-rataalloca-.__ThehikeinCNGpricesmade gained 2.5 intraday and mmscmd 0.637 mmscmd__ tionofgasfromnewwellsand _itlessattractive than alternate ended the day at 1,316, up each fromGailandONGChas earmarked ONGCs Ramnad__fudlslikepetrol and diesel. 1,315 515 30  1,300 427.35 ats per Previous  1,296. Cees 500 Open Close Open Close 1,285 505 Bea Previous close 426.9 Open Close Deu a Cees 1.53.GujaratGas shareprices been reallocated to the CGD field for the city gas sector, __Toresolvethis,theministry closed at 514.15,reflectinga sector for CNG and piped gas which will make available _ofpetroleumandnatural gasin 1.20 increase. supplies during the January- about 1.7-2mmscmd of gasto a December 31 order rejigged According to PTI, the oil March quarter. city gas retailers. some allocations of gas pro- ministry has ordered state- The report further stated ThegovernmentinOctober duced from below groundand owned Gail and Oil and Nat- that Gailand ONGC will have and November last year had __undersea.the report said. Sat, 04 January 2025 FINANCIAL EXPRESS jitpsepaper. financialexpress.com76555639 eS

17. Image: 2ececbf7-d3e7-48b0-b6ba-c933406e23b2.jpg
   Extracted Text: CPSE dividend receipts at 86 of FY25 target e Dividends likely to exceed the Budget target by adecent margin PRASANTA SAHU. New Delhi, January 3 THE CENTRES DIVIDEND receipts from the Central Public Sector Enterprises CPSEs and other investments have fetched 248,376 croreor 86 of the annual target so farin the current financial year. Goingby the performance of the CPSEsso far, the dividend receipts from these companies is poised to exceed 60,000 crore for the sec- ondyearin a row in FY25 asagainst the target of 256,260 crore. As against the Budget estimate of 50,000 crore, the dividends from CPSEs and other residual stakes in other firms had fetched the Centre 863,749 crore in FY24, the highest in any financial year. These CPSE dividends, other than from the Reserve Bankof India andstate-run financialinstitutions, have been driven by robust perfor- manceinawidespectrum of sectors, including petroleum, energy, min- ing and commodities. Top dividend payers to the gov- ernmentinclude Coal India8,073 crore, Oil and NaturalGas Corpora- ON TRACK Centres dividends fromcpses  Ber Sk.  Epc RSLs Fy21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 tion 6,298 crore, Indian Oil Cor- poration 85,091 crore and Telecommunications Consultants India 83,762 crore. Higher dividend receipts from CPSEs will further cushion the gov- ernments fiscal deficit in FY25. Thanks to the dividend of 2.11 trillion from the RBI asagainst the Budget estimate of 80,000- 90,000 crore, the government has pegged the fiscal deficit for FY25 at 4.9 of GDPfrom 5.1 estimated inthe interim Budget. Going by the spending pace which moderated comparedto last year, the fiscal deficit may be lower than 4.9 despite a likely lower nominal GDP size thananticipated inthe Budget. FINANCIAL EXPRESS 2t 07 January 2025 https epaper 2 ate

18. Image: 3229f3b3-be2b-406f-9973-cce4b04610b5.jpg
   Extracted Text: Asse Mn a Se Ue cl Not top, the new models and updates, the competition will be fierce. 208 auto hot PMNeed sector race hot 5-6 more at middle level 7 Kias efforts to sustain COOPEratives momentum included ike Amul launching a facelifted Sonet, which stabilised its sales. The _He said FPOsare playinga big ia rivalry is poised to role in ensuring better prices for roduc- Toyot intensify in 2025. Toyota is set _farmersproduce.Mill HDFC Bank deposits up 15.8 in Q3 THE BANKS CURRENT account savings account CASA deposits grewby 4.4 to 8.72 lakh crore as of December 31, 2024, from 8.35 lakh crore a year ago. Time deposits increased 22.7 to 16.91 crore as of December 31, 2024 from to introduce an electric vehicle tion is currently providing the 13.78 lakh crore a year ago. based on Maruti Suzukis highest returns to farmers. We During the quarter ended eVitara, while Kia plans to need toestablish five-sixmore December 31,2024, the bank launch an EV and its new sub- cooperatives like Amul with a _securitisedassigned loans of 4-metre SUV, the Syros. With _ nationwidereach? he said. 21,600 crore year-to-date at Kia opening bookings for the Syros recently and deliveries scheduled to begin in mid February, the competition is expected to heat up early in the year. Meanwhile, the race for the third spot saw Mahindra and Mahindra making significant strides in 2024. Although Tata Motors retained its position for the full year with sales of 562,468 units  modest 2 growth from 550,838 units in 2023, Mahindras impressive 22 growth to 528,460 units brought it dangerously close. Notably, Mahindra outperformed Tata in the second half of the calendar year, selling 278,112 units against Tatas 269,354. Mahindras ascendancy was driven by blockbuster launches such as the XUV 3XO, which consistently sold nearly 10,000 units per month, and the Thar Roxx, which garnered a staggering 176,000 bookings within an hour of its launch in October. Mahindras sales momentum isundeniable,with products like the XUV 3XO becoming category leaders. In contrast, Tatas Curvy EV and Curvy ICE, launched in the latter half of 2024, failed to achieve superstar status despite being promising offerings, analysts said. As Mahindra inches closer to Tata, the battle for supremacy will likely intensify in 2025. With both automakers expected to unveil FINANCIAL EXPRESS The GujaratCooperative Milk _46,300 crore as a strategic MarketingFederation,theparent _initiativesaidthebankin afil- of popular milk brand Amul, _ingtostockexchanges. ensures 80 of everyrupeespent Retail loans during the byconsumers goes to dairy farm- ets. To promote the cooperative sector, the government estab- benefits ofnaturalfarmingforthe lished the ministryofcooperation _ruraleconomy.He highlighted the in2021.Amund70,000primary importance of linking self-help agricultural reditsocietiesPACS _groupswith MSMEs to meet the arebeingcomputerisedtoensure demand for theirproductsacross thatfarmersand villagers getbet- the country. He emphasised the ter product value, thereby need for proper branding and strengtheningtheruraleconomy. marketing of these products and When intentions are noble, _ stressed the importanceof focus- the results are satisfying, said ing onthe quality, packaging, and Modi, pointing to asurvey that branding of GI products. Hesaid revealed that compared to 2011, _somepeopleare trying to disturb consumptionin rural Indiahas __peacein thename of caste politics nearlytripled,indicatingthatpeo- and called for thwarting such ple are spending more on their designs to preserve social har- preferred items. He noted that _monyinruralpartsof the country. previously,villagershad tospend Speaking onthe occasion, FM Nirmala Sitharaman said banks on food,butforthefirsttimesince _haveundertakensaturationdrive independence, the expenditure for 16 government schemes, onfood inruralareas has fallen including Pradhan Mantri Jan below 50. Modi highlighted  Dhan Yojana,PM Mudra and PM that as a result of his govern- SVANidhi ment sefforts,250millionpeople havebeen lifted cutofpoveryin SCtoral needs the past 10 years, with themajor- . ity being from rural areas, He tO drive data mentioned a recent study bythe Fatt, SEL which reweled tha zat LOCalisation poverty in India has decreased fromapproximately26in 2012 Government tolessthan 5 in2024.Stressing __Selective restrictions is the the need toworkon diversifying best practice in the world today, rural income,the PMhighlighted andthecommitteeframeworkis theimportance of makingirriga- needed to avoid any disruptions ishnawunder- irrigation, creating more rural _ lined. For instance, if the health enterprises,and maximisingthe ministryidentifiescertainhealth tion affordable, promotingmicro- to theindustry Sun, 05 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress.comc76557347 REPORT CARD HDFC Bank financials Gross advances wm QSFY23 mm QBFY2G in lakh cr  chg y-o-y CASA deposits 2 24.69 FA ES3S S t Deposits 15.8 quarterwereup 10 year-on- _toacquireaggregateholdingof year commercial and rural banking loanswereup 11.5, but corporate loans declined 10.30. On Friday, the lender hadreceivedtheRBIsapproval records that should not leave India, the committee will review the requirement, hold consulta- tions andthenissue final recom- mendations. This process will prevent disruptions that could arise if ministries issue localisa- tion notifications without fol- lowing due process. Thedraftrules underthe Dis ital Personal Data Protection DPDP Act, released Friday, includea clause requiringsignif- icant data fiduciaries tocomply with localisation mandates for specific personal data. These mandates will be determined based on recommendations from the committee and approved by the Central govern- ment. The rules are designed to balance regulation and innova- tionwhile safeguarding citizens rights? Vaishnaw said, adding that Indiasapproachtopersonal dataprotection could setaglobal benchmark.To ensure a smooth transition, the government is proposing atwo-yeartimeframe forbusinessestocomplywiththe new law. This will allow indus- tries toadapt their systems and avoid operational disruptions. Following a 45-day public consultation period, the final rules are expected to be pre- sented in Parliament during the secondhalfoftheBudget session upto 9.50 of theshare capi- tal, or voting rights in Kotak Mahindra Bank, AU Small Finance Bank and Capital Small Finance Bank. orthemonsoon session. On parental consent for minors touse social media and verification of parents identity, Vaishnaw said the rules have carefully addressed the large harm the digital world poses to the privacy of people, especially children. Virtualtokensforveri- fication can be an effective way, given that we have a reasonably large digitalarchitecture inplace in India? Vaishnaw said. Virtual tokens ensure data privacy as they eliminate the need to share sensitive identity documents, besidesaligningwith global stan- dards. The Act empowers the Data Protection Board to impose penalties of up to 8250 crore on data fiduciaries on non-compli ance. Italso includes a provision forvoluntarydiscosureallowing organisations to proactively reportbreaches. This voluntary undertaking provision incentivises trans- parency and aligns with the overarching goal of fostering trust in the data protec- tion ecosystem, Vaishnaw explained. The minister reiterated the governments commitmenttoa phased,consul- tativeapproachthat fosters inno- vation, protects citizens, and addressessector-specificlocalisa- tionrequirements.

19. Image: 34723886-20a8-41ff-bb06-34bcd57c7274.jpg
   Extracted Text: QUASHES RETIREMENT RUMOURS Rohit clears the air Not going anywhere Says those on outside cant influence when he stops playing SRIRAM VEERA Sydney, January 4 WITH His SIGNATURE humour, Rohit Sharmadeliveredalineto confirm he is not going any- where just yet, quashing retire- ment rumours. Ina 15-minute interview with Indian broadcaster Star Sports at lunch on Day 2 of the fifth and final Test between India and Australia in Sydney, Sharma, who is not in the play- ing XI, said, Sensible aadmi hoon, mature aadmi hoon, do bachhon ka baap hoon, mere paasthodasa dimaaghai lama sensible man, I ama mature man, lama father of two kids, have some brains was his response when he was asked about his short-term future as captain. He said those on the outside cannot influence when he stops playing the game or leadingtthe side. Sharma said he stood down from the Sydney Test purely becausehisbattingform hasnt been good. He said his decision tosit outin Sydneywas difficult but sensible, main- taining that he was capable ofa turnaroundwith the bat. This decision is not for retirement, nor am I going to step aside from the game Sharma said. I am out of this match because bat nahi chal raha hai the bat isnt firing. Thereisnoguaranteethatthe bat will not work after five months, orafter two months. We have seen a lot in cricket, every minute, every second, FINANCIAL EXPRESS every day, life changes. Sol have this belief in myself that things will change. But at the same time,you know I havetobereal- isticaswellAfterhislean run of ROHIT SHARMA, ON STANDING DOWN FROM THE SYDNEY TEST Decision is not for retirement, nor am I going to step aside from the game. Tam out of this match because bat nahi chal raha hai the bat isnt firing Sun, 05 January 2025 form with the bat, The Indian Express had reported Thursday that Sharma wont be featuring in the Sydney Test. It is learnt that the selectors had a word withthe captainandtoldhimhe is not being looked at as an optionbeyond the ongoing Bor- der GavaskarTrophysseries. Sharma not playing at Syd- ney, seems to have beena deci sion taken by the player and head coach Gautam Gambhir after a meeting with the chai man of selectors, Ajit Agarkar. But the decision to retirewould bea personalone. Sharma didnt walk out for the tossat the Sydney Test. The decision to stand down was madeaftercomingto Sydney,he saidIstood down. This iswhat sayStand down Sharmasaid.I will saya few words, fiftywords will be made out of it. The chat that I had with the coach and selectorwas very simple  am not makingruns.itisanimpor- tant match, we need players in form. You cannot carry too manyout-of formplayersin the team. It was difficult forme to make thiscall, but if everything is put in front of us, then this decision was sensible. Idid not thinktoo much ahead. Whatthe team needed at this time, this wastheonly thoughtthatledto the call At the toss on Day 1, stand-incaptain Jasprit Bumrah hadsaidObviously, ourcaptain Sharma has shown his leader- ship by taking this call. He has opted to rest in this game. So thatshows theres aunityin our ip, team. Theres no self- ishness. We are a, wah Tooking to whatever is  in the teams best interest, Bumrah said. https epaper PD esraverceeicsareresei

20. Image: 353c1a48-41f2-4204-bc27-03f974ba048a.jpg
   Extracted Text:  GUNJIT JAIN, Executive Vice-President, Marketing, Colgate-Palmolive India Oral care has lagged in premiumisation Gunjit Jain, Executive Vice- President, Marketing, Colgate- PalmoliveIndia talksto Alokananda Chakraborty about why thecompany ishankingon technologyand premiumisationto drive growth Editedexcerpts Please takeusthrough the technology input in your latest oral health campaign. Wecallittheoral health movement ratherthan another ad campaign. We startedit becausea large number of Indians have oral heaithissuesbut hardly anybody goes tothe dentist.So, nobody realises they havean issue until ittums painful, The realityis that weareall supposed to go toadentist regularly but only 1 outof 10 Indians did last year. In other words, oral health awarenessis an issue. To make it simple for people, weve come up with an Al-enabled WhatsApp-based tool where youcan answer a few simple questions, take 3 pictures of your teeth, sendit, and inan instant you get an Al- screened dental report. Weve also tied up with the Indian Dental Association and we have access to 50,000dentists.So, you can just put in your pin codeand youwill get a free dental consultation. Weve got resounding feedback from the industry, from consumers and weve got several thousand screenings donealready. The most important thing is this isnot a one-timead, it will continue so we are calling it amovement. Howmuch timedidthe whole processtakeand howare you dealingwith theissueof data security? Itsbeen more thanayearin themakingand the number onereason iswhenweget intoAl, itcomeswithalot of responsibility.We are collecting first-partyhealth dataof individuals,including their FINANCIAL EXPRESS pictures So confidentialityand therobustnessof thetechnology is key. Thedatawe are collecting has tobeused only forthe purpose for which itisbeing collected. What stepsare you taking to improve percapita toothpaste consumption? Herewe have to focus onthe difference between penetration and consumption. Toothpaste as acategory has universal penetration inthis country. Every household inurban and rurai India has toothpaste at home, which wasnt the case 10 years ago. But does that mean PER CAPITA CONSUMPTION OF Bro ua al SOME OF OUR NEIGHBOURS faa W Nels Brae eas Mon, 6 January 2025 BB httpsepaper. financialexpress -comc76569196 that peopleare using toothpaste and brushing often enough? The answeris a resounding no. The per capita consumption, which is the grammage of toothpaste used per individual inthe country, is behind some of our neighbouring countries like Thailand orthe Philippines. About 80 of urban Indians donot brushat night, they only brushoncea day.5 5 of rural Indians brush not daily but occasionally. And nobody goes to the dentist. As market leaders, it is ourresponsibility to make people realise that brushing every daynotjustin the morning butalso brushingat night  reduces the chances of cavities by 50, Thecompanyhasalsospoken about driving growth through premiumisation.Can you elaborate? Oral care has lagged in premiumisation. Why so? Avery honest answer is that forseveral years the market leader, which is Colgate, did not investin generating awareness and drivingthat seriously. Anditis our responsibility todo it. Weve picked it upas one of the key strategies for growth. Youneed superiorproducts that can deliver perceivable superior benefits. You need superior communication to convince people that thisis the right thing. Weve got products on three specificfronts. For anybody whos proactive about their oral health,we are owningthe preventive segment with our flagship product Colgate Total. Second, for thosewhowant teeth whitening, which is oral beauty, weve got Colgate Visible White.And then for peoplewhove got problems, we have therapeuticsolutions like a Colgate Sensitive ora Colgate PerioGard, which weve recently introduced for gum problems.

21. Image: 37763f95-78bc-43e3-b8b7-2a34e9b05356.jpg
   Extracted Text: Bajaj Housing Finance stock may drop 21 Kotak report  Initiates coverage with sell rating target priceat 100 FE BUREAU New Delhi, January 3 NOTING THAT ITS current expen- sive valuations pose a downside risk to Bajaj Housing Finance, Kotak Institutional Equities has initiated coverage on the stock with asell rating and a target price of 100. This signals apotential downside of 2119in the stock, itsaid. Bajaj Housing Finance trades rich 4.7X book and 39X earnings FY26E, posing a downside risk 2196to ourfairvalue of 100and drives oursellrating,thedomestic brokerage firm said, adding that a high growth runway, parent Bajaj Finances exceptional execution trackrecord,and clean asset qual- ity over the years are the key posi- tives forthe firm, Bajaj Housing Finance has reported robustasset quality perfor- mancewith grossstage 3 of 0.3 in FY24, low non-performing loans NPL in the non-retail segments set it apart from large peers with volatile track record. We expect credit costs to remain moderate at 7- 17 bps over FY25-27E the brokeragesaid. Itexpects Bajaj Housing Finance todeliveran earnings growthof 25 CAGR 160 EPS CAGR over FY24- 27Eonthebackof 24AUMgrowth, stable margins, lower operating expenses,andinch-upincredit costs. Recent capital issuance will offset the pressure on cost of borrowings, leadingtoflatmargins, reducelever- FINANCIAL EXPRESS 52 04 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress PENA CORNER age while growth remains strong. Hence, the near-term retum on equity RoE may remain range- boundat 13-140, withexpectations of mid-teon RoEs over the medium termit said. The housing finance companys low-risk pro- file is aided by a focus on the salaried mass afflu- ent segmentandadiver- sified business mix that includes home loans, lease rental discounting, loan against property, and developer loans, the brokerage said. The key risks to Bajaj Housing Finances business include effective execution ofitsbusinessstrategiesto sustain high growth risktonet inter- est margin NIM from migration to EBLRor sharp rate movements and intense competition in the prime segment, itadded. -com76552671

22. Image: 38efae8e-bd89-4a5d-abd8-a34b66ce76f5.jpg
   Extracted Text: EXPERTS WARN OF UNCERTAINTIES Market rally riding on high hopes AKSHATAGORDE Mumbai, January 2 ATATIME when marketexpertshave been advising investors to prune returns expectations from 2025,the benchmark indices 2.3 surge in the first two days has raised hopes that the stock market may deliver strong returns this year. Market experts, however, arent impressed, pointing out that the fundamental concerns of expensive valuations, earnings downgrades, shallow inter- estrate cuts, and low gross domestic product remain. Theyalso cautioned about near-term uncertainties with Donald Trump taking charge in the US, and the Federal Reserves policy meetingat theendofthe month. The last two days have been an exceptionas domestic, and onThurs- day, even foreign investors are front- loading their expectations on hopes ofapick-upin consumption and bet- ter than-expected corporate earn- ingsin the upcoming results season. Other contributing factors include goodauto salesnumbers,decentGST collectionsin December, strong quar- terly deposit growth by banks,anda positive outlook forthe tech sector. Vk Vijayakumar, chiefinvestment strategistat Geojit Financial Services, said Thursdays rally was totally unexpected given thesustained sell- ingby theF Plsamidthestrongdollar and thehigh bond yields in the US. Leading indicators available so far do not indicate a pick-up in eco- nomic growth. GST collections for December have declined 2.97 month-on-month, indicating con- tinuation of the slowdown. There- fore, Q3 corporate earings are unlikely to register a rebound. This meansinvestorshave to focusonseg- mentswhich will buckthestowdown like IT, pharma, and to some extent, financials. Luxury consumption like hotels jewelleryandaviation alsoare likely to post goodresults,hesaid. While the market had been extremely oversold for several days, with FPIs holding heavy short posi- tions in index futuresthey lacked a trigger for any significant short- covering move on Thursday, said Santosh Meena,head of research at DAY OF GAINS Nifty Intra-day, Jan 2 24,188.65 Close 23,7642.9 Previous close Top sectoral gainers, ALR iT 2.26 Consumer durables NIE 1.89 Financial services NNNE1.64 Private banks NB 1.42, Top Nifty gainers Sal Eau i C5509 DG Eicher Motors is Bajaj Finserv eer Bajaj Finance Maruti Suzuki NE 5.6. Shriram Finance EE 4.53 Swastika Investmart. While DII buying can support themarket at lowerlevels,that isnot sufficient to take the market higher. Forhigher market levels, wewillhave towait forindications of growth and earningsrecovery,Vijayakumarsaid. However, heexpects the rallyin high quality large caps to sustain. KranthiBathini,directorofequity strategy at WealthMills Securities, said, While Q3 earnings are likelyto be better, we will have to watch the earnings season over the next few weeks. Atthe same time,we should wait for FPI participation to return fully afteryear-endholidays Kotak Institutional Equities also highlighted three headwinds forthe market in the short termexpensive valuations across caps and sectors except financials, earnings cuts,and sluggish consumption demand. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Ti 3 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress. comc76549513 Re closes at another record low JASPREET KALRA Mumbai, January 2 THE RUPEE CLOSED at its weak- est closing level on record for the eighth consecutive session on Thursday, as a widened arbitrage between the non-deliverable and outright forwardsmarket added to the currencys troubles. The domestic currency closed at 85.7525 against the dollar, down 0.1 on the day. While the rupee hit a low of 85.79 during the session, it avoided deeper losses on the back of likely dollar-sellingintervention by the Reserve Bank of India, traders said. While state-run banks were spotted offering dollars earlier in the session aswell, traders said the offers were amplified near 85.78- 85.79 levels, RBI had intervened strongly neartheselevelsast week aswell when the rupee slumped to anall-time low of 85.8075. On the day, gains in most Asian currencieswere of little help tothe rupee in the face of heightened dollar demand driven by banks exploitingarbitrage opportunities between the NDF and onshore over-the-counter OTC markets. The widened gap between NDF and outright forwards also sparked a surge in dollar-rupee forward premiums with the 1-yearimplied yield touching its highest level since October2022. The forward _ premiums retreated later on the back of dol- lar-tupee buysell swaps. con- ducted by state-run banks, likely on behalf of the RBI, traders said. REUTERS NO RELIEF Rupee vs dollar Intra-day, Jan 2 inverted scale Dorney Citi

23. Image: 3f78c247-b5e0-4741-a332-7c6b340f2c7f.jpg
   Extracted Text: Import Of oll Irom Russia falls 15 1n Dec ARUNIMA BHARADWAJ New Delhi, January 3 INDIAS IMPORT OF Russian crude oil declined by 13.2 to 1.39 million barrels per day in December against 1.61 million barrels per day in November, data from Vortexa showed. However, Russia remained the largestcrudesuppliertothe country in Decemberaccounting for 31 of Indias total crude oil imports. The countrys overall crude oil importsincreased by almost 4to 4.46 million barrels per day month-on-month in December, with higher crude imports from Iraq offsetting the decline in imports from Russia. n December, the top five sup- plies included Russia, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Angola, with Angolaovertaking the United States asthe fifth-largest crude supplier said Xavier Tang, marketanalyst at Vortexa. Indian refiners turned towards Africanand West Asianproducers for crude as Russian crudeexportsfell While the share of crude oil sourced from Russia and Saudi Arabia, the two traditional oil sup- pliers tothe country, fell in Decem- ber, the share of crude imports from the United Arab Emirates and Iraq increased. Iraqs share of Indian imports increased to 23 this month, up from 16 last month. Imports from Iraq increased by 48.3 on month to 1.03 million barrels per day last month, as per the data. Imports from Saudi Arabia fell by 80 to 573,523 barrels per day last month from 624,605 barrels per OIL TURMOIL Indias crude oil imports in barrels per day Mec 25 MNov24 mi Dec 24 - 2 PS Sue Bat af Bas Aa ot an  nog 42,914,177 43,053,824 at Hot S ams  eT  Russia saudi United United Arabia Arab  States Source Vortexa Emirates Total day in November. The US incoming president, _ tion in thenear-term. Given thediscountsforRussian barrels over the West Asian coun- terparts, India will continue to pri- oritise importing crude oil from RussiaTang said. However, with the recent reduction in West Asian crude offi- cial selling prices, India will likely supplement any shortfall in Russ- ian supplies with West Asian crude grades,headded. Indias crude imports are also dependent onthecountrysdomes- ticoil demandand export margins. Meanwhile, the countrys crude imports from the US is likely to remain unaffected under the new administration, analysts say. US domestic production is projected to increase next year, as part of the new drilled and completed wells coming online. FINANCIAL EXPRESS 2t 04 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress Donald Trump,has announced that heintends toimpose 25 tariffson imports from Canada and Mexico. Thiswould greatly increasethecost of Canadian heavycrudeswhichare transported viapipeline intothe US, of which, some are exported to India. With the new import tariffs, Canadian heavy crude will almost be economicaily unattractive to Indian refiners, as such, we could expect to see lowerexports of these ctudes from the US Gulf to India, said Tang. The mainstream US crudewill likelyremain unaffected, and their exports to India will still be driven by economics. While Trump has announced that he plans to expedite drilling permits on federal land,analysts at Vortexabelievethat thiswould have limitedimpact on US crude produc- -comc76553604 According to the data, Indias privaterefiners bought 1.68 million barrels of crude oil per day in December while public down- stream companies imported 2.78 million barrels of crude oil, account- ing for 6 2 of the total imports. Indiasoildemand growth rateis now expected to surpass Chinas, making it one of the fastest-grow- ing consumption centres, prompt- ing the countrys refiners to accel- erate expansion plans and widen crude diversification, as per SP Global Commodity Insights. In 2025, India is forecast to delivera relatively fastergrowth in oil demand of 3.2, compared with Chinas 1.79, said Kang Wu, global head of macro and oil demand research at SP Global Commodity Insights. AsIndias refining capacityis set to rise, refiners and policymakers are intensifying efforts to diversify the crude import basket to reduce overdependenceonafew supplying countries orregions. Prime Minister Narendra Modis visit to Guyana hasbolstered expec- tations that the countrys refiners are nearing long-term crude oil import agreements with the rela- tively new South American supplier, SPsaid. Recent diplomatic visits will help bring in crude oil from Africa and Latin America, but the growth in absolute volume would depend on the overall crude market, said Abhishek Ranjan, South Asia oil research lead at SP Global Com- modity Insights. The share of West Asian crude shipments to Indias baskets likely to drop bya few percentage points due tothe diversification of import sources. But, overall, the crude grades in Indias import basket are expected toremain medium grades and we dontanticipatea significant drop in share of sourcrudein 2025, Ranjan added. India, which imports as muchas 859 of its needs, has said that it will continue buying oil from the cheapest available sources to meet growing demand, with Russian oil falling in that category due to attractive discounts. The countrys dependency on import of crude oil during April to Novemberofthecurrentfiscal roseto 88.1, up from 87.6 in the corre- sponding period of FY24 amid rising demandand stagnant domestic pro- duction, as per data from the Petro- Jeum Planning and Analysis Cell,

24. Image: 4a27b54c-96a0-406c-81bd-8babee8ad2b8.jpg
   Extracted Text: FE FEATURES EHAVE BEEN relying upon dry fruits and nuts across genera- tions to help us get through the harsh wintermonths.They are not justa staple of traditional iets during thisseason but have also been valued fortheirtherapeu- tic properties and potential to boost our overall well-being. While they are rich in nutrients, overeating them can lead toa range of health issues, especially at this timeoftheyear.Whats alsoimportant is to know how to consume them. Here are some important facts that you can keep in mind to make these humble foods your ultimate winter wellness allies. Winter superfoods Fiona Sampat, clinical dietitian, Kokil- aben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital in Mumbai, lists out some of the common dry fruits and nutsavailable inthecoun- try and how they are beneficial during thewintermonths ALMONDS Almonds are among the worlds most populartree nuts. They are agood source of healthy fats, protein,and fibre, which provide sustained energy and prevent energy crashes. Consuming almonds as a snack in winter can help maintain energy levels throughout the day, reducing fatigue and improving overall productivity. Almonds contain high levels of vitamin E, potassium, cal- cium, phosphorus,and other minerals. WALNUTS Walnuts are a great source of alpha-linolenic acid ALA, an omega-3 fatty acid that is important for reducing inflammation. In fact, itis the only nut significantly high in omega-3 fatty acids. These omega-3 fatty acids contribute to improved cognitive function, memory,andmentalwell-being.This is important during winters when you may experience less natural sunlight, which can impact overall brain health. G  Cashewshelp in keeping you warm. They are rich in protein andarea good source of healthy fats, including mono-unsaturated and poly-unsaturated fats. These fats serve as a concentrated source of energy, helping to keep you warm by providing a steady release of energy over time. They also contain zinc, which is essential for immune cell func- tion and antioxidants, such as polyphe- nols, offering several health benefits. PISTACHIOS These nuts arean amaz- ing addition to yourwinter diet because theyarerich in potassium, fibre, vitamin B6, and vitamin E. Pistachios also help lower oxidative stress, which keeps you healthy and energetic throughout win- ter.They are richin a variety of nutrients and may support weight loss, gut health, blood sugar control, and heart health. They are especially rich in lutein and zeaxanthin, both of which are very important antioxidants for eye health. They are also high in fibre, which is good foryourgutbacteria. RAISINS Its high iron content makesit excellent for improving energylevelsand combating anaemia, while its soothing nature aids in digestion and respiratory health during colder months. Raisins may be a simple way to help keep the digestivesystemhealthy. Raisinscontain helpful soluble fibres, which givebody to the stool and help it pass through the intestines easier. This may help improve digestion and promote regularity. Raisins are a low sodium food that also contains a good source of potassium, FINANCIAL EXPRESS iy ONE SERVING OR AHANDFUL AROUND Breuer CONSUMED ON A DAILY BASIS How to consume While they are rich in nutrients and are a staple of traditio colder months, eating too much can have negative health which helps the blood vessels relax. Antioxidantsmay help keep the skin cells young and prevent damage fromaging cells. Raisins also contain valuable nutrients, such as vitamin C, selenium, andzine. DATES Dates contain antioxidants that help boost the immune system, provid- ing an extra layer of defenceagainst sea- sonal illnesses. The combination of vita- mins and minerals in dates supports a healthy immune response, makingthem avaluable addition to your winterwell- ness arsenal. Their nutritional benefits may support brain health and prevent disease. Dates are high in fibre, which Sun, 05 January 2025 2 https epaper. financialexpress.comc76558636 a may be beneficial for preventing constipation and controlling blood sugar. Dates may be helpful forlowering inflammation and preventing plaques from formingin the brain. Winter immunity is boosted by the healthfulfats,vitamins, andantioxidants found inalmonds,walnuts,and cashews. Iron and natural energy are found in dates and figs, weighs in Dr Ashok Grover, senior consultant, internal med- icine, Max Super Speciality Hospital, Vaishali, Ghaziabad. Dr Praveen Gupta, principal director and chief of neurology at Fortis Hospital inGurugram, also points out hownutri- ent-densewalnuts help keep the brain in excellent health. Additionally, he says cashews are extremely beneficial in the prevention of arteriosclerosis andstroke. How much is too much Atleast one serving around 15-20 gm ora handful of mixed nutsand dry fruits should be consumed on a daily basis. Up to 50 gmof mixed nutsand dry fruits is safe to consume, however, it is advised to consume them in parts spread out throughout the day rather than all at once. Overconsumption of these nuts can leadto digestive issues, may causeweight gain or bloating, and increase calorie intake. Itcanalso elevatesodiumlevels if 25

25. Image: 4bb0d3e1-8380-4b4b-bf61-6353a5589610.jpg
   Extracted Text:  What has led to the public debate over H-1Bvisa? LASTWEEKEND, TECH billionaire Elon Musk got involved ina public dispute overthe H-1B visa programme that allows US employers to hire foreign workers. Musk who isa key supporter of President-elect Donald Trump, defended the H- 1B visa sayinghe could goto war for it. Hewas responding to criticism from far-rightactivistsand Trump supporters over the latters appointment of Chennai-born venture capitalist Sriram Krishnan as senior policy advisor on artificial intelligence. Itstirreda debate aroundimmigration policies. aura Loomer,a political activist,cited Krishnans past support for legal immigration and easing procedures for the entry of skilled workers into the US, while Steve Bannon,a longtimeaide of Trump, blamedbigtech oligarchs for Explainer IMMIGRATION  Xeno fe OF OVERALL H-1B VISAS WERE ISSUED TO INDIAN Why Trumps base is split on H-1B visa supporting H-1B visa. Trump backed ee 2 Musk later, sayinghewas in favour of .  chav progestanne athoughihehaw A public row has erupted among Donald Trumps a preouy immed Hey iat and supporters over the H- 1B visa, whose biggest beneficiaries PROPOSED CHANGES unfair forlocal workers. Thewar of ,    IN ONGOING DEBATE words has divided Trumps support are Indian nationals. FE explains the issues at the heart of INTHE US INCLUDE Ease wit Mate ane sone ties cect the dispute, the criticism faced by the scheme,and how INCREASE IN billionaires in favourof H-1Bvisaand . . . MINIMUM WAGE hardliners againstit. proposed changes could impact Indian IT companies REQUIREMENTAND ADDITIONALFEES e Why has Musk qualified his support? 60,000 MUSK, WHO HAS helda H-1Bvisa himself, expensive to hire from overseas than suggest the contrary  that US employers CURRENTLYTHE softened his position dayslater, saying that the programmeisbrokenand needs majorreform He also suggested raisingthe minimumsalary significantly and addinga yearly cost for maintaining the H-1B, making it materially more FINANCIAL EXPRESS hu 02 January 2025 https epaper. financial domestically Although Musk had argued that H-1Bvisa helped in recruiting highly skilled professionals fromabroad and the top0.1of engineering talent some MAGAMake America Great Again hardliners including Loomercited datato were hiring thousands of relatively low- wage workers in informationtechnology 1Tand financial services sectors. Musk acknowleged that the majority of H-1B visa holders earned less thanorsimilarto the average American IT BrAgeseeaRAxp epapr.in MINIMUM ANNUAL, WAGE REQUIREMENT UNDER H-1B VISA PROGRAMME xpress. comc76542021 e Criticism and what the data says CRITICS OFTHE H-1Bvisaargue thatthe scheme undermines American workers. While tech leaders who are part of Trumps support base have backed the visa programme, the detractorshave questioned the claim of adearth of local talent. Instead, critics view the problem asone of tech firms considering American talentas too expensive. Data shows the criticism is not entirely unfounded. Accordingtoan analysis of US Citizenship and Immigration Services USCIS data obtained by Bloomberg, 69 of approvals for Indian workersin FY23 were forannual salatiesbelow 100,000 for IT professionals in the US, the figure was 104,420.In FY23, the medianannual income of people approved toworkin the US on H- 1Bvisas was 118,000.The corresponding income for people in computerand mathematical occupationsin the US is about 113,000.The vast majority of approvalsis for workers in science, technology, engineering, and maths  65were forcomputerrelated jobsin FY2023.H- 1Bvisasarenthindering the rest of the workforce, experts point out. e Howchanges could affect Indian IT firms INDIAISTHE biggest beneficiary of the H-1B visaamongcountries,withthe latest figures for FY23 showingthat 72 of thevisas were issued to Indian nationals. Indian IT firms gainthe most from the visa, initially granted forthree years but can be extended up tosixyears.lfthe ongoing rowin the US amid the nativist anger directed at Indians leads toproposed changes suchas increase in minimum wage requirements currentlyat 60,000 oradditional fees couldleadtoa permanent shiftin cost structures for Indian IT companies, FE reported. Financial costs relating towages,and including increased compliance burden, may have to be factored in. Also, changed norms could make the companies rethink theirworkforce strategies in the US, and they may set upoperationsin placesllike Canada or Mexico to service Americanclients. e Atightrope walk forTrump EFFORTS HAVE BEEN made earlier to restrict the H-1B visa programme. During Trumpsfirst presidential term, he had promised to end the abuse of foreign worker programmes,and aBuy American, HireAmerican executive order increased scrutiny of H-1B visa applicationswith denial rates jumping to 24 in 2018 compared to 5-8 during the Obama years.Trump has since takena U-turn. Tesla, which is headed by Musk abig donor for Trumpselection campaign had724 H-1Bvisaholders the last year alone. Although companiesand insidersdo not anticipate big changes to the H-1B visa or green cards underTrump,he facesa tightrope walk keeping his flock of backers in Silicon Valley as well ashis anti-immigration Republican party hardliners and MAGAactivists together. The debate on H-1B visa could likely have abearing on Americas position in tech globally, its workforce,and the identity of the Grand Old Party itself.

26. Image: 52fc5336-da3b-4eab-a2fc-6229b1c34354.jpg
   Extracted Text: HE ELECTRIC VEHICLE EV revolution has been lauded as a game-changer in the fight against climate change, promising toreduce carbon emissions and promotesustain- able transportation. Governments worldwide are investing heavily in this transition through subsidies, policies, and infrastructure development. While EVs undoubtedly playa role in reducing emissions, the narrative sur- rounding their unblemished benefits deserves acloserlook. Ananalysis reveals, that theEVrevolution isnot the panacea it is portrayed to be. Resource con- straints, environmental implications, and socio-economic challenges raise questions about the long-term sustain- ability of this shift. At first glance, EVs seem likean envi- ronmental saviour, producing zero tailpipe emissions. But this ignores the significant resourcedemands and envi- ronmental costs tied to their produc- tion, especially the manufacturing of lithium-ion batteries, their main engine. Lithium and cobalt, critical compo- nents of EV batteries, are extracted at a staggering environmentalandsocialcost. Around 70 of the worlds lithium reservesareconcentrated inthelithium. triangle of Argentina, Chile, and Bolivia, where mining operations are water- intensive, depleting resources in already arid regions. Cobalt, predominantly sourced from Congo, presents an equally troubling scenario. Reports of hazardous working conditions, childlabour,corrup- tion, and geopolitical tensions prevail in thedark underbelly ofcobaltmining.The skyrocketing demand for theseminerals risks triggering resource scarcity and resource wars as nations vie for eco- nomic power driven by fuel  whoever controls the fuel gains power. Producing an EVissignificantlymore energy-intensive than manufacturing a traditional intemal combustion engine ICE vehicle. Astudybythe European Fed- eration forTransport and Environment  EV OVERDRIVE INDIA MUST EMBRACE A BROADER, MORE INCLUSIVE VISION OF CLEAN MOBILITY Electric hype, hidden costs M MUNEER Fortune-S00 advisor, start-up investor, and co-founder, Medici institute for Innovation. x MuneerMuh found that EV production generates 60 more carbon emissions than ICE vehicles do, mainly due to battery production. Manufacturing a 60 kilowatthour bat- tery fora Tesla Model 3adds 3.6-6tonnes of CO2 toits lifecycle emissions. Inaddi- tion, a typical EV consumes six times more scarce minerals than any ICE vehi- cle.Allof theseraisean essential question Are we merely shifting emissions from the tailpipe tothe factory floor? Acritical factor in evaluating the envi- ronmentalbenefits of EVsis thesourceof electricity used to charge them. In india, where coal accounts for nearly 70 of power generation, the pe While personal EVs are a tempting their disposalbecomesanenvironmental challenge. Recycling them is neithereco- nomically viable nor environmentally friendly at scale. Onlya small percentage of materials can be recovered, leading to the accumulation of electronic waste. In India, wheree-waste management infra- structure is underdeveloped, this posesa significant risk of contamination. Improper disposal can release toxic sub- stancessuchaslithium, cobalt,andnickel into the environment, jeopardising ecosystemsand human health. Indias transition to EVs requires extensive investments in infra- structure, According to so-called zero-emission solution, they might _the NIT! Aayog,the coun- vehicle has a carbon- not bethe most _ttywouldneedatleast 10 intensivelifecycle.Accord- efficient path million public charging ing to the International Council on Clean Trans- portation, EVs in coal- reliant grids can havelife- cycle emissions only marginally lower than modern ICE vehicles. While India is making strides toward increasing renewable energy in its grid, it constitutesa fraction of the total energy generated. Until the energy grid is decar- bonised, the environmental advantageof EVs remains questionable. Worse, the relianceon fossil fuelsto charge EVs could undermine efforts to combat climate change, making the transition less effec- tive than anticipated. An added problem for Indiaslocal makingofEVisthat China controlsamajority of the essential miner- als, directly or indirectly. The lifespan of batteries typically rangesfrom eight to 15 years, afterwhich FINANCIAL EXPRESS 2! 0 January 2025 forward, especially in populous countries like India ee stations tomeetits 2030 EV targets. However, India currently has fewer than 5,000suchstations, highlighting the enor- mity of the task ahead. The financial burden doesntstop at infrastructure. Setting up and main- taining reliable charging network isa capital-intensive process, and the costs are often passed on to consumers. This, compounds the already high upfront cost of EVs compared to traditional ICE vehicles. For example, a Tata Nexon EV costs around 15 lakh, whileits petrol variant ispriced at roughly half that. For a country where theaverage per capita income remains low at 2.3 lakh, these costscould make EVs inaccessible tothe majority, leading to eventual snail- paced adoption rates. While personal EVs are a tempting https epaper. financialexpress. comc76555027 solution, they might not be the most efficient path forward, especiallyin pop- ulous countries like India. The environ- mental and resource burden of manu- facturing millions of EVs could outweigh benefits. A more sustainable approach could be in focusing on elec- tritying publictransportation. Buses, taxis autorickshaws,andtrains form the backbone of mobility for mil- lions of Indians Electrifying these modes of transport could have a far-reaching impact and can reduce emissions and air pollution, Citieslike Delhi, whereair qual- ity regularly reaches hazardous levels, could benefit immensely from such ini- tiatives. Electricbuses, whichhavealready been introducedin several cities, demon- strate the potential of this approach by loweringemissionsand operating costs. In addition, exploring alternative technologies such as hydrogen fuelcells or solid-state batteries could diversify Indias clean mobility strategy. These technologies, though still under devel- opment, promiseto address someof the imitations of lithium-ion batteries, including resourcedependency andlife- cycleemissions. The promise of EVs is undeniable, butsoare their challenges. Indias path to sustainable transport cannot rely solely on EVs. balanced approach that integrates renewable energy develop - ment, public transport electrification, and alternative technologies is essen- tial. Policymakers must also address the socioeconomic disparities that could hinder EV adoption, ensuring that the transition benefitsall strata of society. Else, EVs will be like Tesla for most Indiansaspirational. A holistic strategy can help India achieveits climate goals,and drivea sus- tainable and equitable transportation ecosystem. The EV revolution isa critical pieceof thepuzzle, but itis not thewhole picture.Totruly combat climate change and build a sustainable future, India must embracea broader, more inclusive vision of clean mobility.

27. Image: 53e2c7ad-b789-4ab9-be1e-466a8cdaa1a0.jpg
   Extracted Text: FIRST CABINET MEETING IN NEW YEAR Two crop insurance schemes to run till FY26 Additional subsidy of 3,850 cr for DAP to maintain retail prices Total allocations for PMEBY  RWBCIS for FY22-26 raised to 69,515 crore SANDIP DAS New Delhi, January 1 THE UNION CABINET on Wednes- day extended two crop insurance schemes  the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana PMFBY and the Restructured Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme RWBCIS  by one more yeartill 2025-26to align their implementation with the 15th Finance Commission period. The total outlay for PMFBY and RWBCIS has been increased to 69,515 crorefor2021-22to2025- 26 from 66,550 croreforFY21-25. The cabinet committee on eco- nomicaffairs also created aseparate fund forinnovation andtechnology FIAT of 8824.77 crorefortechnol- ogy infusion intheimplementation of these flagship schemes. FIAT will help in the useoftech- nology for faster assessment of crop damage, claim settlement and lesser disputes. It will also help in using digital technologiesforeasier enrolment and greater coverage, information and broadcasting min- ister Ashwini Vaishnaw told the pressafter the cabinet meeting. The agriculture ministry said the special fund will be utilised towards funding technological ini- tiatives as well as research and development studies. Agriculture minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the insurance companies will have to pay a penalty of 12 to farmers on the claimsif there isa delay inclaimset- marke Information and broadcasting minister Ashw press after a meeting of the Cabinet in New Delhi on Wednesday tlement beyond the stipulated period underthe PMFBY. Insurance claims of 21.7 lakh crore have been paid to farmers against 34,000 crorepremium paid under PMEBY since its launch in 2016, accordingto agriculture min- istry data. Participation in PMFBY is optional for farmers. PMFBY is cur- rentlyimplemented in 23 statesand Uniontertitories.In FY24,enrolment under PMFBY crossed arecord 4 mil- lion, anditis projected toincrease sig- nificantly in the current fiscal. Anofficialsaidthecropinsurance scheme is gradually moving towards asubscription-based model rather than a loan-based scheme. More FINANCIAL EXPRESS PU 02 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress naw addresses the than 55 of farmers who are enrolled underthecropinsuranceare those who had notavailed loans from the banks in FY24,the official said. Govt allows non-basmati rice exports to Indonesia TheCabinetapprovedtheexport of 1 million tonne of non-basmati rice to Indonesia through National Cooperative Export Ltd NCEL. The export will be conducted under a memorandum of understanding between NCEL, Indias cooperation ministry and the Indonesian gov- ernment,agricultureminister Shiv- araj Singh Chouhan told reporters. -comc76536847 SANDIP DAS New Delhi, January 1 THE GOVERNMENT ON Wednes- day extendedadditional subsidy on di-ammonium phosphate DAP beyond December 31,2024, aimed at helping maintain retail prices of this key fertiliser at 1,350abagof 50 kg.Thiswill push up thefertiliser subsidy by 3,850 crore in the cur- rentfinancialyear. Farmers will continue to get DAPat 21,350 per 50-kgbagandthe extra burden will be borne by the central government. One-time spe- cial package up to 3,850 crore is approved for DAP fertiliser? infor- mation and broadcasting minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said in a press briefing. He pointed out that the global market prices of DAP are volatile due to geopolitical concerns. The government has stated that DAP imports were impacted due to the Red Sea crisis since the begin- ning oftheyear,asshipsarererouted and take an additional 6,500 km through the Cape of Good Hope, South Africa, thus taking an addi- tional 14-45 days fora consignment toreach Kandla port in Gujarat. Earlier, in a bid to improve availability, the fertiliser ministry has offered an additional subsidy of 83,500tonne for DAP, or aspe- cial package costing 2,625 crore, to cover rising cost during April- December 2024-25 to make the price sustainable forcompanies for procurement of DAP. However, PRIME MINISTER NARENDRA Modisaid on Wednesday that the governments first decision inthe New Yearis dedicated to farmers, as the Union Cabinet headed by him enhancedallocation to crop insurance scheme and raised subsidy on a key fer- tiliser. Ours is a govern- ment fully committed  to furtheringwelfare of farmers. We are proud of all our  Ss trade sources said that with the rise in global prices of DAP, such a hike has become uneconomical. Global prices of the soil nutrient, which isvital for the winter crops during early sowing stages, have surged in recent months. The fertiliser ministry has assessed 5.5 million tonne MT of DAP usage forthe forthcoming rabi season, out of which 609 is being imported from countries such as Russia, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Jor- dan, Egypt and China. The annual domestic production of DAP is around 4.5-4.8 MT against a  -_ Sm, farmers by ensuring DAP Modi says decisions dedicated to  enhancing prosperity of farmers farmer sisters and brothers who work hard to feed ournation.The first Cabinet of 2025 is dedicated to enhancing prosperity for our farmers. lam glad that key deci- sions have been taken in this regard, the Prime Minister said ina post on socialmedia platform x The Cabinet decisionon extendingthe one-time spe- cial package on di-ammo- nium phosphatewill help our ataffordable prices the Prime Minister added.  PTI demand of 10-11 MT.Inlast three months, we have tried the longer routes toensureadequate supplyot DAP although availability is impacted, Rajat Kumar Mishra, secretary, the department of fer- tiliser, had stated at national rabi conference while stressing micro- management of supplies of non- urea fertiliser. Industrysources told FEthat due to supply disruption in the Red Sea, landed costofDAPin the countryhas increased by 260 from 510tonne in May to 645tonne or around 54,000 tonneat present.

28. Image: 58a3283a-8103-446c-9214-0bed4e9619fa.jpg
   Extracted Text: AMD, Intel target Al inferencing to rival Nvidia monopoly ACCORDINGTO KARAN Kir- palani, chief product officerat Neysa, the growing promi- nence of inferencing could significantly alterthe compet- itive landscape.AsAl becomes as pervasive as electricity or the internet, inference work- loads across consumer and enterprise ecosystems will vastly outpace training, Kir- palani said. are just some of the area where inferencing is set t flourish. Data is the fuel of genera tive AI, but its training phas has limits, said Arun Moral managing director at Primu Partners.Once we cross 5 tril lion data points, only synthetic data will remain, reducing th scope for training. This make inferencing th Thisshifewitl Applications ike future gro amplifythe rev- real-time traffic driverforAlhard enueandinnova- analysisincarsor ware tion opportuni ties associated with inference on smartphones are  personalised Gartner pro recommendations jects, that by 2028, over 80 hardware  workloa Intel,though Just some ofthe accelerators it still a minor areaswhere data centres wil player in the inferencingis set to bededicatedtoA GPU market, is flourish inferencing,com leveraging its my pared tojust 40 CPU expertise to carve outa niche in inferencing. Jeongku Choi, research analyst at Counter- point Research, explained that Intel and AMD can leverage their power-efficient, cost- effective hardware to chal- lenge Nvidia in this space. Unlike Al training, whichis concentrated in data centres, inferencingisexpected totake place closer to users on edge devices. These include smart- phones,autonomousvehicles, and IoT systems. Applications likereal-timetrafficanalysisin cars or personalised recom- mendations on smartphones FINANCIAL EXPRESS in 2023. Nvidia is no sitting idle. The company ha expanded its portfolio t include ARM-based CPUs anc optimised GPU platforms fo inferencing signalling itscom mitment to maintainingdom inance in this segment. Inferencing is incredibly complex said Jensen Huang Nvidiaspresidentand CEO.h requires high accuracy, lov latency, and high throughpu simultaneously, which mak it very challenging to builc efficient systems. But we ar seeing significant growth ir thisarea? Thu, 2 January 2 https epaper. fir

29. Image: 5b7e2cb3-8699-4bcf-b383-0cc7a57f79a7.jpg
   Extracted Text: WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2025 ECONOM FINANCIAL EXPRESS TWORK INDIA On the traffic problem in Bengaluru MN ANUCHETH The vehicle population growth in Bengaluru is exponential, whereas the infrastruc- ture to cope with that growth is lin- ear.Thereisa lack of publictransport andnotmany peopleuseit.Oneesti- mate says about 28 per cent of Ben- galureans use public transport, whereas, in other cities like Mumbai and Delhi, its much higher. At least wean reach 50 per cent of people using publictransport. There are so many bottlenecks, ourroad dimen- sionsare not correct and footpaths are inadequate or non-existent. We arenot promoting mobility. Whatis the fastest, cheapestand greenest mode of transport? Once you start thinking along those lines, the entire focus shifts. Historically, Bengaluru didnothavearobust pub- lic transport system. BMTC carries about 40-50 lakh people a day. But the problem is that it has the same number of buses in 2024 asi did in 2000, which is 6,400. Public trans- port didnt keep pace with the Tequirementsof theday. Hence,there hasbeena tendency to go for private transport. Today, we have the moniker of having the largest num- ber of private vehicles in India. We overtook Delhi in January. On macro problems with urbanisation in India NARESH V NARASIMHAN All the infrastructure that the govern- mentcanthink of whentheyhearthe word development or trafficmitiga- tion isa flyover. The Indian political, administrative, lawmaking and pol- icy systems have been hugely biased towards rural development. Only in FINANCIAL EXPRESS the last 20 years have we seen some attention being paid tourban India Mumbai has a population of 2.4 crore. Bengaluru hasa population of 1.2crore, about half. But Mumbaihas 36 lakh private vehicles while Ben- galuruhas 1.1 crore privatevehicles. Ithinkits theworst cityin theworld intermsofpeople-to-privatevehicle ownership ratio,a vast majority of vehicles being two-wheelers. The cars inBengaluruareabout 15 lakh Thisis adystopian output from acabalcon- sistingof transport planners, consul- tants, politicians and the bureau- cracy. Architects and designers have almost norole toplay. mnot saying architects and designersare theonly people required. You probably need behavioural psychologists, econo- mists and maybe poets to imagine beautiful things. We have to completely abandon the fossil uel era, models of the con- tralbusiness district CBDand living in the suburbs. These are lll stupid Western ideas, whichwere predicated upon the availability of endless petrol, whichisgoingtorun outin 15 years. Before that, how arewe going to move around? And no, electric vehiclesEVarenottheanswerasyou will just replace your petrol car with an EV. Traffic congestion wont change. Weve consistently eaten the green belt all around the city. We Wed, 08 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress. IE THINC SECOND EDITION OUR CITIES Inequality, climate change to be big urban issues 7 SUES MY RAJEEV GOWDA VICE CHAIRPERSON, SITK Inindia, the pace of urbanisationis add practically as manyvehiclesas we add people. The traffic problem is because we didnt putin placea From left Udit Misra, Associate Editor, The Indian Express Jaya Dhindaw, Executive Program Director, Sustainable Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Bengaluru Naresh V Narasimhan, Managing Partner, Foundation MV Rajeev Gowda, Vice Chairperson, State Institute For The Transform Congress government launched the way more rapid thanwhatthepolicy _ ShaktiScheme, which opened up systems cancopewith.Oneofthe _ government bus travel for women challengesin Bengaluru isthat we free of cost. Suddenly theresso much demand for public transport that the governments coming up with innovative methods of publictransportinfrastructure financing and expanding the bus ahead oftime. Weve got twomajor _fleet. As that happens, you will start metrolines, andoncethenetwork _ toseepeople shifting fromusing kicks in, arapidtransformationwill__ personal vehicles to choosing public happen. The Siddaramaiah-led transport. should nowmake Indiasoutdoors as good as our indoors. Everybody who thas access to resources lives ingood quality indoors. But the outdoors - public spaces, the quality of our streets, the quality of ourattitudes towards garbage -all that also needs tochange. On infrastructure-related issues in cities NITHYA RAMESH Our focusis on large infrastructure projects, which are needed to grow our cities. However, there is not enough focus on urban design in most govern- ments and bureaucracies. Urban planningandtransportplanningare, but urban design is often not recog- nised. The design of the outdoor space, the space as soon as you step comc76582089 out of your home - whether its your footpath, sidewalk, the neighbour- hood park or the market where you shop - is not given adequate impor- tance or funding. Cities grow and these places organically sprout because of peoplesneeds, but theyre notgivenpriority.Ifwe go totheWest, one of the important places theyll take you on the walking touris their food market. Whereas our food mar- kets aresmellyand not nice places to goto. Alargeproblemisrecognising the need for the design of our cities in between buildings and not just streets. The second is looking at smallerinfrastructuretoimprove the gualityoflifeinyourneighbourhood. IfThavetocreatea compactcommu- nity,then I should be able to walk to everything Inced in 15 minutes. My children should beable to goto foot- ball class withoutassistance and my aged parentsshouldbeabletowalkto the market and buy their fruits. Eco- nomic growth and job opportunities need to be supported with a good quality of life which can come through planning and design. By design, itsnotjustaesthetics,itsalso theengineering. Like amarket has to be well titand ventilated. If its fish market, it needs to have drainage so that the water they constantly use doesnt overfloworsmell. On cluster-based planning ofcities VIVEK MITTAL Cities are engines of economic growth and people cometo citiesinsearch ofjobs and economic growth. As of now, all WWW.FINANCIALEXPRESS.COM ret igen ies And Director, WRI India Ross Center MN Anucheth, Joint enkataramanan Associates Nithya Ramesh, Director of Urban Design, JNNU Urban Space n of Karnataka Vivek Mittal, Executive Director, Deloitte India. our cities are more focussed on spa- tial planning. Most citiesdonot even havethemaster plan orspatial plans. But now cities should move around economic plan- ning. This does not neces- sarily mean more indus- tries, It means creating opportunities for every- body, an informal econ- give resources to the cluster approach? In most tier-two and tier- three cities, youll find that the local bodieshave one ortwo technical offi- cials, the rest are all like conservancy workers or class C and class Dwork- ers. If I dont build their capacities, how will Imake them future cities? Thecluster-based approach is impor- tant forthem. Onthe changing definition of urban India JAYA DHINDAW Who do you think is responsible for cities, sus- tainability and progress? We dont haveclarity onthat Wesayindiais 30 per cent urban and theres rapid urbanisation. When youre talking about 30 per cent urban, youre only consideringa certain administrative boundary. In the last 15 years, over 150 per cent of the growth in most Indian cities has happened outside the municipal boundaries from whereyoure actually accounting for the urbanised population. When youre talking about rapid urbanisa- tion in terms of numbers, itsnot rapid because city centres within municipal boundaries are actually hollowing out people are moving outside those omy.Wehave totakeallof al boundaries. The growthis that into consideration happening _outside. andsay,wheredoesmycity Scan theQRcodeto According to the World gointhenoxt20-30years? watdivideo Bank, the socio-economic Then all the policies around my spatial growth and my infrastructure growth can result in long-term growth. Each city has itsown identityand the entire planning should move around that. Forexample,Bengaluru worked around the IT industry. The city has to move around that - what Kindoflabourwillbehere? Whatkind of jobs will be there? What kind of infrastructure will be there? What kind of support systems will be put in? I think NITI Aayog has already started a pilot projectofmaking eco- nomicplans for four cities - Mumbai, Surat, Varanasi and Visakhapatnam. Ifyou see Indian urbanisation, it is not only about tier-one and tie! cities. Wehavearound 100,000cities which have one lakh population. For economic development, we have to followa cluster approach. Howdowe built dimensions of the definition of urban for India is around 57 per cent. If youlook at just built patterns, its over 60 per cent already. So the basic definition lies withwhat isurban.Whenit comes to traffic, water, sewage, any service, it wont get provisioned for because youre not recognising it as urban.In Bengaluru, when youre building out- side the peripheries,85 percentof the blue-green infrastructure _ is encroached by built-up because its not regularised, Therefore, itjust gets built in the wrong areas. Another issueisfinance.Inthelast 10years,the government has made that a central agenda But climate action, environ- mentalresourceseaurityandair qual- ity are not electoral agenda for any- body still. Cities need something like 10billion-1 trillion inthe next 10 years forinfrastructure growth. eS

30. Image: 5bfaa385-4f2c-4162-843c-bd163f51cff6.jpg
   Extracted Text: Big rockets, a telescope  big changes in space await in 2025 Some key events to look forward to in space  astronomy MICHAEL ROSTON, KATRINA MILLER URSPECIES CALLED this latest 366-day journey around the sun 2024 and packed into ita ton of astronomical and spaceflight excitement. solar eclipse crossed North Amer- ica. Two robotic landers reached the lunar surface, largely intact. The most powerful rocket booster ever built was caught by a pair of mechanical arms nicknamed chopsticks. A journey began to Jupiters icy ocean moon Europa. And private astronauts con- ducted daringspacewalk. Can this revolution around the sun we name 2025 compare? Jeff Bezos enters the arena Theextraplanetaryambitions of Ama- zon founder Jeff Bezos could present a challengeto Elon Muskand SpaceX soon. The space company started by Bezos, Blue Origin, hasa powerful rocket called New Glenn that may at last get off the ground in 2025. Like SpaceXs Falcon 9, the boosterstage is designed tobe fully reusable so it can fly again and again and reduce the cost of launches. The rocket could launch national security satellites forthe US militaryand space- craft for NASA, including orbiters to Mars and moon landers. Another thing New Glenn will carry is satellites for Amazon. The company sProject Kuiper involves plans to build amega-constel- lation of satellites beaming internet down from space, in competition with SpaceXsStarlinkconstellation.Amazon also plans to launch Kuiper satellites using rockets from many of Blue Ori gins competitors, including United Launch Alliance, Arianespace of France and even SpaceX. Rubins first light Astronomers atop a mountain in central Chile arewrappingup construc- tion of the Vera C Rubin Observatory, which might capture its first views of the night sky this year,as early as July 4. Formerly the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope, the observatory wasrenamed in 2020to honourVera Rubin, who died at 88 in 2016, Rubins work persuaded astronomers of the existence of dark The Dream Chaser, bu Armstrong Test Fa matter, which makes up a vast majority of mass in the universe. With the largest digital camera in the world,scientists will use the Rubin Observatory to create a time-lapsemotion pictureof the South- em sky. Such images would help researchers understand the nature of dark matter,as well as dark energy, the unknown force pushing the cosmos apart. The trove of data will also help reveal the story of ourgalaxys birthand catalogasteroidsandcometsin our solar system, including those that could slam. into Earth oneday. The moon, and Trump, come back around During the first administration of Donald Trump, American space policy refocused on lunarexploration. Bidens administration sustained that direction. But as Trump returns to the White House, the countrys existing space plans could be upended. Alternatively, Trump couldmoreradicallyshiftNASAs focus to sending people to Mars. For all that potential uncertainty, a series of robotic space missions are planned to the moon early in the year. FINANCIAL EXPRESS fu 05 January 2025 by Sierra Space, undergoing testing at NASAs Neil Sandusky, Ohio wr The first two, a pair of landers from the American company Firefly Aerospace and the Japanese company Ispace, will launch on the same SpaceX rocket as soon as mid-January. The mission by Firefly will be the first trip of its Blue Ghost lander and will carry cargo paid forbyNASA.The lunartrip by Ispacewill be its second attempt after the com- panys first lander crashed into the moons surface in 2023. Laterin theyears first quarter, Intu- itive Machines may try to put another robotic lander on the moon after the companys Odysseuslander reached the surface intact, but tilted over, last Feb- ruary. The companys second lander, named Athena, also will carry NASA- financed instruments, including a drill that will try to find samples of ice. Athena will share a SpaceX launcher with Lunar Trailblazer, a NASA orbiter that will study wateron the moon. Vigils for Voyagers 1 and 2 Voyagers 1 and 2, twin spacecraft that inspired a generation of cosmic wonderers, werelaunched in 1977.After decades of exploring theouter solarsys- https epaper. financialexpress.comc76561057 tem before charting theunknown fron- tier of interstellar space, the two space- craft are showing signs of age. Early in their journey, the pair swooped past Jupiter and Saturn, and Voyager? latervisited Uranusand Nep- tune. But perhaps the missions most iconic gift to the world was a photo taken of Earth,a tiny pixel against the expanse of space. In recent years, the robotic explorers have each blinked in and out of contact with NASA. Instru- ments on both spacecraft have been shut down to conserve power. But NASA isnt giving up on them yet.When they are eventually interred inthe space between the stars, it would bean apt resting place given how the duohasventured where nootherspace- craft had gonebefore. Indias orbital objective India is focusing on human space- flight. A member of the nations astro- naut corps, Shubhanshu Shukla, is to spend upto 14 days this spring aboard the Intemational Space Station during a commercial mission with the com- pany Axiom Space. Shukla and his fel- lowastronauts arehoping tobe the first tolaunch to low Earthorbit on itshome- grown rockets. India said in December that an orbital vehicle from that pro- gram, known as Gaganyaan, was being prepared foratest launchwith noastro- nauts aboard. A successful flight could lead the way to a crewed Indian astro- naut launchas early as 2026. New milestones SpaceX could try to repeat the stun- ning chopsticks catch of its massive Super Heavy booster. It may alsoattempt tocatch the upper-stage Starshipvehicle after it completes an orbit of Earth and returns tothe launch sitein South Texas for thefirst time.SpaceX saidit wasaim- ing for 25 launches of Starship in 2025 asit prepares thespacecrafttoland astro- nautsonthemoonunderthecompanys contract with NASA. Other new rockets and spacecraft maytake flight in 2025, One is Neutron, a reusable rocket being developed by Rocket Lab, which was founded in New Zealand. The com- pany routinely carries satellites to orbit aboard its small Electron rocket, and could conduct a first flight of the new vehicle from a launch site in Virginia. Another is Dream Chaser, a space plane built by Sierra Space.After delays in 2024, the company hopes it will carry cargo to the ISS for the first timethis year. NYT

31. Image: 6f49695e-0955-401b-933d-f820d08f3ebf.jpg
   Extracted Text: MAHA KUMBH 2025 Bridging brands  beliefs Digital and legacy firms are jostling to use the opportunity GEETIKA SRIVASTAVA SCHEDULED FROM JANUARY 13 to February 26 in Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh, the Maha Kumbh 2025 is expected to drawa staggering 400 million devotees over 45 days. This years gathering offers brands a once-in-12-years opportunity to connectwitha diverse audiences at both grassrootsand digital levels. As per estimates, brands are expected to splurge a mammoth 3,000 croreduring theweeks of festivities. This Kumbh holds special signifi- cance asthis particularevent occurs oncein 144 years,encompassing 12 Purna Kumbh Melas, says Ashish Vohra, founder  CEO of Onora Hospitality, which is focusing on religious tourism. We aimtolever- ageit through two of ourcamp sites, and expect revenues of 812-15 crore overtwomonths Many tech brands have also seized the opportunity. Parks, for instance, is trying to sort some of the logistical challenges,enhancing brand visibility in the process.With over 40 crore pilgrims in atten- dance, we expect over 25 lakh vehi- cles to converge into Prayagraj. Devotees will be able to discover, pre-book and pre-pay fora safe and secure parking spot on our app, says Amit Lakhotia,CEO founder. The company will introduce a FASTag-enabled parking manage- ment system toaccommodateup to 3 lakh vehicles and willalso set up EV charging stations. For brands like PayNearby, the captive audience offers the perfect cohort for utility-driven engage- ment. Jayatri Dasgupta, chief mar- keting officer, says the company is working to bring essential digital and financial services  such as cash withdrawal, mobile recharge, and ticket booking  to the Mela. We aim to connect with Bharat on a massive scale, ensuring essential services reach everyone? she notes. As new-age brands jostle with legacy advertisers, experts say they are using every tool in the book to grab attention. Yasin Hamidani, director of Media Care Brand Solu- tions, notes, In 20 13, the focuswas on physical branding. Today, enhanced infrastructure and tech- 400 Tailion Size of captive audience 3,000 crore Estimated expenditure by brands 25 lakh Cost oftier-1 brand activation Exengive, visibility Source Industry savvy pilgrims are enabling app- based services, influencer collabora- tions, and immersive experiences Changing rules Marketing spends at the Maha Kumbh can range from 5 lakh for basicactivationstoseveralcrores for multi-channel efforts, say experts. Back-of-the-envelope calculations FINANCIAL EXPRESS Mon, 6 January 2025 show brands aiming for significant visibilityneedtoallocate 50 lakh to 1 croreovertheeight-week period, while smaller campaigns can achieve targeted engagement with more modest budgets. During previous Kumbh Melas, larger brands led the procession, sponsoring rest areas or setting up branded tents offering refresh- https epaper. financialexpress. comc76569193 ments Smaller players haveusedthe event to sample everyday essentials and have even partnered with local vendors forsuch services. Whiletra- ditional touchpoints remain rele- vant, this time around, the integra tion of digital tools is crucial to maximise exposure say marketers. Despite the opportunity, reli- gious marketingisnotasimpletask. Itrequires careful research, plan- ning, anddemonstrating sensitivity topopularbeliefs toavoid offending oralienating anyone. So what is the best way to grab eyeballs without appearing to hard-sell? Given the predisposition of the visitors, brands woulddowellto pri- oritise their religious and cultural sensibilities while crafting their campaigns. Hamidani advises focusing on storytelling rooted in tradition, influencer tie-ups, and sustainable initiatives Authenticity and empathy are key to leaving a lastingimpression. The thing to rememberis that oneshould notuse thetoolsat your disposal to manipulate or coerce your customers into buying your products or services. In short, say no to hard-selling. The way to go would be to use the platform to support customers and their faith. As Vaishal Dalal, co-founder  director of Excellent Publicity, puts  The Kumbh is a canvas for innovation. From ground-level ini- tiatives to experiential marketing, the focus should remain on mean- ingful associations

32. Image: 6fc28423-e2b3-4cfa-a297-5a61ec1a101e.jpg
   Extracted Text: RIL to build Al infra hub in 24 months, says Akash Ambani FE BUREAU Mumbai, January 2 RELIANCE INDUSTRIES WILL build Al infrastructure in Jam- nagar within a record 24 months, making the city the global leader in this domain, said Akash Ambani, director at RIL,atan event commemorat- ing the 25thanniversary of the companys Jamnagar Refinery. Speaking at the event, Akash said The Al infrastruc- ture that we have commenced workingin Jamnagar will make notonly JamnagaraleaderinAl infrastructure, but will also place itamongstthe topranked in theworld,Ambani said. He said that they have already begun building the Al infrastructurein Jamnagarand aim to complete it intrue Jam- nagar style, within a record 24 months, as they have consis- tently done in the city. On behalf of Isha, Anant and myself, we commit to you that we will grow our Reliance together and make sure that Jamnagar will always be the jewel of our Reliance family. What I wanttto also say, itis our goal in the new information and technology age to make Jamnagaraleader ofthe world! hesaid. The company launched its first refinery in Jamnagar on December 28, 1999, and com- pleted 25 years on December 29 of last year.Leading world- class project consultants advised Dhirubhai Ambani against investing in thedesert- FINANCIAL EXPRESS AKASH AMBANI, DIRECTOR, RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LIMITED The Al infrastructure that we have commenced work- ing upon in Jamnagar will make not only Jamnagar a leader in Al infrastructure, but will also place it amongst the top ranked in the world On behalf of Isha, Anant and myself, we commit to you that we will grow our Reliance together and make sure that Jamnagar will always be the jewel of our Reliance family like region that did not have and 1999, he and his highly roads,electricity,or even suffi-_ motivated teamwent on tocre- cient drinkingwater.Theyhad ate an engineering marvel at warned that mobilisingman- Jamnagar. The Jamnagar refin- power, materials, technical erycomplexishometosome of experts andeveryotherinput the worlds largest units, in such wilderness would including the Fluidised Cat- require extraordinary efforts, _alytic Cracker FCC, Coker, Dhirubhai defied all the Alkylation, __Paraxylene, naysayersandwentaheadwith Polypropylene, Refinery Off- his dream.He wanted to create Gas Cracker ROGC, and Pet- notjustanindustrial plantbut coke gasification plants. a Nandanwan. Between 1996 Input fromAND Fri, 03 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress. comc7654861

33. Image: 7c47c547-c9f1-442a-96a1-af51fdec26cf.jpg
   Extracted Text: e Crop insurance schemeand its outreach UNDER THE PMFBY, the farmers sharein premium is capped at 29 of sum insured for kharif crops, 1.5 for rabi crops, and 5 for commercial or horticultural crops. Afew states have further waived off the farmers share of premium due towhich there isvery little burden on growers. The balance premium. isequally shared between the Centreand states. For the Northeast, the premium issplit in a91 ratio between the Centre and states. However, due to the scheme being voluntary and low gross croppedareain the region, flexibility has been allowed to avoid surrender Explainer SAFEGUARD FOR FARMERS Why Centre has of funds and for reallocation in CLAIMS PAIDTO. otherdevelopment projectsand FARMERS SINCE caasewness Xtended crop cover x enrolment under the PMFBY crossed LAUNCHED arecord 40 million 55 ofthem are IN2016 non-loanee ones or those who have   ot availed sty crop loa fice bar The Centre has extended the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima a Thecoverage of the schemewas Yojana PMFBY and the Restructured Weather Based Crop IN FY24, ENROLMENT 60 million hectare, which is 39 of .  UNDER PMFBY ihe piossGloreeld creacl 73 state Insurance Scheme RWBCIS till 2025-26 to align them CROSSED ARECORD. and Unionerritonesthatare withthe 15th Finance Commission period. Sandip Das 40 MILLION 55 implementing it through 20 public . . OF THEM ARE and private sector companies. explains the move, and the issues renewed FARMERS. e Impact in terms of protecting farmers against crop loss  269,515 cr  THE PMFBY, INTRODUCED in the 2016 insurance against crop damage due to against which claims of 1.7lakh crore FINANCIAL OUTLAY kharif season, isa yield index-based plan, natural risks,and in areas notified by state have been paid to them. For every 100 of FOR PMFBY  RWBCIS whereas the RWBCIS,startedalongside,is governments. Officials said despite being premium paid by farmers,they have recei- FORFY22-26, based onweatherindices. The basicdiffer- _ voluntary, itis moving toa subscription- ved about t500as claims,anagriculture OM 266,550 CR encebetweenthetwo isthe methodology basedmodel from aloan-based scheme. ministry note said. Among farmers who ee oe a forcalculating admissible claims of farmers. The PMEBY offers comprehensive ana  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Since its launch, farmers have paid 34,000 croreastheir share of premium, have accessed the crop insurancescheme, 889are small and mediumland-holders. financialexp.epapkinie 4 a ae Fri, 03 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress.. comc76546739 e Why have several states dropped out? SINCE THE PMFBYS launch in 2016, sixstates  Gujarat, Bihar, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Jharkhand  have opted out of the scheme while Punjab,which declined tojoin citing secured irrigation and lowindemnitylevel, approved it for horticultural crops.States have dropped outof implementing cropinsurance schemes because of risk perceptionand financial orbudgetary constraints. Thefinancial constraints of the state governmentsand low claim ratio during normal seasonsare the majorreasons fornon-implementationof the schemeby these states? according toa parliamentary panel reportin 2021, Among these states,Andhra Pradesh decided to implement the PMFBY from kharif 2022 season,and last year Telanganaand Jharkhand rejoined it. States such as Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Meghalaya, and Puducherry have opted foruniversalisation of the crop insurance scheme, where the state government bears the cost of farmers premiums. e What are the financial implications? THE TOTAL FINANCIAL outlay forboth the schemes have been increased to 69,515 crore for 2021-22 to2025- 26, from 66,550 crore forFY21to FY25. The finance ministryhas allocated 15,000 crore for FY25, while the revised estimate for FY24 standsat 14,600 crore. InFY23,the governments expenditure oncrop insurance was 10,296croreas many stateshad dropped out.Withthe approval of funding till FY26, agriculture minister ShivrajSingh Chouhanhassaid the crop insurance schemewould continuebeyond FY26. According to officials, as several states arein talkswith theagriculture ministry to jointhe scheme,require- ments for higher financial allocation may be metin the next few years.The flagship schemewill continue as farmersare often facingweather related challenges, officials said. e Challenges in implementation SINCEITS LAUNCH, the PMFBY was compulsory for farmers who take aloan from any financial institution,and voluntary fornon-loanee farmers. Butsince 2020 kharif, thas become voluntary forall farmers. Thereare long delaysin paymentsand compensation paid to farmers. Yield-related disputes, delayed transmission of yield data and delays by state governmentsin releasing theirshare of premium subsidyare the major reasons for protracted settlement of daims. The Centrehas decided to release its share of premium subsidy in advance by delinkingit from therelease of states share in payment. For faster assessment, claimsettlement,and reducing disputes, the cabinet has approved the creation ofa 824-crore fund for innovation and technology for ensuring tech infusion. Underthis fund, weatherinformation and network data systems, and yield estimation system using technology, which deploysremote sensing,arebeing setup. anh 

34. Image: 7cf88c93-a840-4b84-bd44-b99647fbe5d4.jpg
   Extracted Text: Govt cuts jet fuel price by 1.5, commercial LPG by 14.5cylinder PRESS TRUST OF INDIA New Delhi, January 1 THE PRICE OF jet fuel, or ATE, on Wednesday was reduced by 1.5 and the rateof commercial LPG that isused inhotelsand restaurantswas cut by14.5per 19-kgcylinderinthe monthly revision done in line with benchmarkinternational prices. Theaviation turbine fuel ATF pricewasreducedby 1,401.37 per kilolitre, or 1.529, to 90,455.47in the national capital home to one of the busiest airports according tostate-owned fuel retailers. The rate cut follows two rounds of monthly increases. Prices were increasedby 2,941.5 perkl3.3 on November 1, and by 1,318.12 per Ki 1.45 on December 1, 2024.The ATF pricein Mumbai has been reduced to 84,511.93 from 85,861.02 per ki previously. Oil firms also reduced the price of commercial LPG by 814.5 to 21,804 per 19-kg cylinder in the nationalcapitalThisthe first reduc- tion after fifth straight monthly hikes in commercial LPG price. Rates were hiked by 816.5 per 19- kg cylinder at the last revision on December 1. Infive price increases, commercial LPG rates had been hikedby 172.5 per 19-kgcylinder. Commercial LPG now costs 21,75 6 per 19-kgcylinderin Mum- bai, 21,911 in Kolkata, and 1,966 in Chennai. Prices of ATF and LPG differ fromstate tostatedepending on the incidence of local taxes including VAT. The rate of cooking MONTHLY REVISION PF CF m  ATF prices for domestic airlines kilolitre Applicable from January 1, 2025 METRO PRICES Delhi 90,455.47 Kolkata 93,059.79 NNNNN Mumbai 84,511.93 NS Chennai 93,670.72 i HA19-kg commercial cylinder now costs 21,804 in Delhi 21,756 in Mumbai, 21,91 Kolkata, and 21,966 in Chennai Domestic cooking gas rate remains unchanged gas used in domestic households, however, remained unchanged at 803 per 14.2-kgcylinder. State-owned Indian Oil Corpo- ration OC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd BPCL, and Hin- dustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd HPCL revise prices of ATF and cooking gas on the first of every month based on the average price of benchmark international fuel and foreign exchange rate. FINANCIAL EXPRESS hu 02 January 2025 https epaper. financialex 

35. Image: 84ef10f9-9049-4228-bac4-a25abdfbaa4b.jpg
   Extracted Text: Fadnavis expands Maharashtra cabinet with 39 new ministers Focus on young, new faces 19 berths go to BJP, Shiv Sena gets 1, and NCP 9 ministers SUDHIR SURYAWANSHI  Mumbai MAHARASHTRA Chief Minis. ter Devendra Fadnavis on Sun day effected thefirstexpansion of his ministry with 33 Cabinet ministers and six ministers of state. Governor C P Rad hakrishnan administered the oath to all 39 ministers, many of them fresh faces, at the Raj Bhavan in Nagpur on theeve of Maharashtra state assemblys winter session. Portfolios will be allocated in the next two to three days, Fadnavis said. Among the newly sworn-in ministers, 19 are from the BJP 16 cabinet berths and 3 MoS U1 from the Shiv Sena 9 cabinet and 2 MoS and 9 from NCP 8 cabinet ministers and 1 MoS With this, the BJP has 20 ministers including CM Deven- dra Fadnavis, Shiv Sena has 12 including deputy CM Eknath Shinde, and NCP 11 induding deputy CM Ajit Pawar Notably, 12 ministers from the Shinde-led government were dropped to give represen tation to young leaders. Those dropped include BJP leaders Sudhir Mungantiwar, Vijay Ku- mar Gavit, and Ravindra Cha- Mon, Maharashtra Governor CP Radhakrishnan, Chief Minster Devendra adavis, Deputy Cis Ajit Pawar and Eknath Shinde during the swearing-in of cabinet ministers ont van NCP leaders Chhagan Bhujbal, Dilip Walse Patil, Anil Patil, and Dharmaraobaba At ram and Shiv Sena leaders Tanaji Sawant and Deepak Kesarkar, While focusing on fresh fac- es, Fadnavis also included some experienced hands in his team. Among the young BJP minis. ters are Jaykumar Rawal, Pan kaja Munde, Ashok Uike, Ash- ish Shelar, Shivendrasinh Bhosale, Jaykumar Gore, San- jay Savkare, Nitesh Rane, 16 December 2024 Akash Fundkar, Madhuri Mis. al, Pankaj Bhoyar, and Megh- na Bordikar Sakore. Meanwhile, Ajit Pawar de- nied berths to veterans Chha gan Bhujbal and Dilip Walse Patil to accommodate Dhanan jay Munde, Dattatray Bha rane, Aditi Tatkare, Manikrao Kokate, Narhari Zirwal, Maka rand Patil, Babasaheb Patil, and Indranil Naik. As for Eknath Shinde, hehad a tough task to keep each one happy with a limited number HNP SS https epaper .newindianexpress..comc76432668 Ceremony held at Nagpurs Raj Bhavan The ceremony at the Raj Bhavan in Nagpur was the first to be held in the states second capital in 33 years. The last such event was Sudhakarrao Naik cabinets expansion in 1991 of berths. Shiv Sena MLA Narendra Bhondekar resigned from all party posts after he was denied a berth in the new cabinet. Shiv Sena ministers include Sanjay Rathod, Uday Samant, Sanjay Shirsat, Pratap Sarnaik, Bharat Gogawale, Prakash Abitkar, Ashish Jaiswal, and Yogesh Kadam. A senior BJP leader said the party has tried to keep the del- icate balance of caste and re- gional representation in the new cabinet. Each section of the society voted for us. There- fore, we wanted to give repre- sentatives to each section even if the faces from these socie- ties were new. This is a new team under new leadership and we are hopeful that they will perform better, he said. io

36. Image: 84f154d9-3bf2-46b2-95de-8ca87f5b4660.jpg
   Extracted Text: Dec manufacturing PMI slips to 56.4, weakest in 2024 FE BUREAU lew Delhi, January 2 EXPANSION IN MANUFACTURING activity in the country slowed in December, amid softer demand conditions and price pressures. According to SP Global, the HSBC India Manufacturing PMI fell toa 12-month lowof 56.4 in December from 56.5 the previous month. December data showed the sec- tor improving to the least extent in 2024, amid softer increases in out- put, new orders and stocks of pur- chases? SP Global saidon Thursday. Cost pressures receded and were mild, but charge inflation remained historically high, it said. Ines Lam, economist, HSBC,said,Indias man- ufacturing activity ended a strong 2024 with a softnote amidst more signs of a slowingtrend, albeit mod- erate,in theindustrial sector Therate of expansion in new orders was the slowestintheyear, suggestingweaker growth in future production. The weaker PMI print belies expectation of a strong recoveryin industrial activity and demand con- ditionsinH2. Thefinanceministryin itslatest MonthlyEconomic Review hadsaid industrialactivityis likelyto gain traction in the second half of FY25,andhadhighlightedthatthere aresignsofcapital formation growth rebounding during theperiod. SP Global said that qualitative datasuggested that growthwasham- peredbycompetitionand pricepres- sures in December. Similarly, factory output roseat asubstantial pacethat wasneverthelessthe slowest in 2024. Although new exportsalesrose at aslowerratethan total newbusiness, the pace of growth for the former strengthened as firms were able to secure international orders from actoss the globe, SP Global said. Meanwhile,withcontainer,mate- rialandlabourcostsreportedly ising since November, Indianmanufactur- ers registered another increase in FACTORY ACTIVITY Manufacturing PMI 56.5 56.9 Jan Feb Mar Apr 58.8 May A 57.5 gun  Sl i 53.1 57.5 EE S6.s Aug sep Oct e Nov 56.5 Dec INE 56.4 PMI by SP Global ing below 50 suggests contraction above it indicates expans overall expenses.Having eased since theprevious month, therateof input price inflation was moderate by his- torical standards, said SP Global. Selling prices rose in December to a greaterextentthan costburdens,and one that was stronger than seen on averageinthenear20-yearserieshis- tory. Anecdotal evidence showed that demand resilience supported pricing power, theratings agency said. Looking to 2025, Indian manu- facturers were confident of aise in output.Optimism reflectedadver tising, investment and expectation of favourable demand. Sentiment was nevertheless curbed by con- cernsaround inflation andcompet- itive pressures, said SPGlobal. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Fri. 03 January 2025 https epaper. financialex eS

37. Image: 88488777-d19a-4894-bf0c-a441b2bb266e.jpg
   Extracted Text: low, and isa sharp decline from the 8.2 growth in FY24. The advance estimates numberwill surely be achieved as growth in the second half of the fiscal year can be expected to easily clocka growth of 6.7. But the headwinds could strengthen beyond that. Ifwe have toavoid another dis- appointment in FY26, some immediate measures need to be taken to resuscitate demand. While private final consumption expenditure istippedto growat 7  agood level on the face of it  itis on avery weak base of only 4 in FY24. The fact is that consumption may have been resilientat the top end fora range of premiumgoods, but thereis clearly ery limited purchasing power with middle-and lower-income households. Tobring relief to small enter- prisesand give their businessesa leg- up, the central bankmustshitt its pri- orities and cut interest rates by a chunky 100 basis points in the next six months.That could cheer the sentiment and boost retail credit which has moderated sharply.To revive the credit impulse, the Reserve Bank of India must ensure liquidity remains abundant, enabling lenders to mop up cheaperdeposits. Without some succourfor small unitsand middle-income and lower middle-income households, it wll be hard torevive demand. Thetrade,hotels,transport,andcommunications segment is estimated to growat only 5.8 in the current year, the slowest pacein six years. This sector generates employment in large numbers and the sluggish perfor- mance probably explains the slow job creation in the country. In general, the lack of job opportunities is worrying.A report by FICCI-Quess Corp has found that thecompound annual growth ratein wages, across sixsectors, was just 0.8-5.4 in the 2019-2023 period. This was low not simply in absolute terms butalso didnot cover for the 5.7annual average inflation. The increase in personshired by aclutch of 1,196 firmsfell to 1.5 in FY24 from 5.7 in FY23, revealing how companies are cutting back on hiring. Tobe sure, manyare opting to hire on contract but it doesnt seem like the numbers are verylarge. Real rural wages havebeen negative fora long time. Demand forwork under the governments rural employment guarantee scheme was at a four-month high in December, suggesting the rural recovery is not as strong.as is believed. The lack of visibility in demand is apparently hold- ing back further investments by the private sector. While companies are putting up capacity in several sectors, inaggregate the gross fixed capital formation, expected to grow at 6.4 this year, could have been better. While the private sector must definitely commit more capital and hire more, the government should up spending meaningfully  at least by 10 annually  fora couple ofyears.Asimprudentasit may sound,a lit tle bit of pump priming is called for to ensure the economy doesnt lose any more momentum. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Wed, 28 January 2025  tuorees https epaper financialexpress..con Se ee ge Bans Le ee eee

38. Image: 89d9f132-e9e3-4a9f-96e2-1e63e656acb2.jpg
   Extracted Text: Foreign flows into govt bonds to come off record highs DHARAMRAJ DHUTIA Mumbai, January 1 FOREIGN FLOWS INTO govern- ment bonds are set to decline in 2025, afterspiking to a record high in 2024 as the debt got added to JPMorgans emerging market debt index, investors said. Interest rate trajectoriesin India and the US and movesin the rupee will influence the pace of flows, they said. For 2025, foreign inflows into the Indian government bond mar- ket are expected to remain strong butmay not match therecord levels of 2024, said Wei Li, head of multi- asset investments at BNP Paribas. Overseas investors net bought 1.24 lakh crore of Indian bonds under the so-called fully accessible route in 2024, clearing house data showed. Most bonds underthe route, which allows unfettered for- eign investment,arepart of JPMor- gansindex. Despite the optimistic outlook, inflation expectations and policy adjustments as wellas global market fluctuations could affect capital flows, BNP Paribas Lisaid.Therefore, investorsshould remaincautiousand closelymonitormarket dynamics Investors expect rate cuts in India to kick off from February but worry that the easingcyclecould be ashallowone. The US Federal Reserve has already projected fewercuts or 2025. FINANCIAL EXPRESS hu 92 January 2025 Bond yields end higher in years first session 10-year govt bond yield Intra-day , Jan 1, 2025 Gee 678 a Goes How the rupee moves will also sway foreign investors, with the dol- larset torisemoreas DonaldTrump takes charge as the US president. https epaper. financialexpress. comc76542474 BOND YIELDS ENDED higher in the first trading session of 2025 due to mild concerns over heavy borrowings in the January-March quarter, though underlying investor sentiment remains upbeat. The 10-year bond yield ended at 6.7813, against its previous close of 6.7597, REUTERS Therupee dropped 2.8 in2024, and hit a record low of 85.8075 on December 27, while the benchmark bondyield fell 42 basispoints. financialexp.epapnin Currency weakness can temper the momentum of bond inflows, especially in case of persistent depreciation pressure, Dhiraj Nim, aneconomist and FXratesstrategist at ANZ, said. Inflows will continue but at an erratic and less enthusiastic pace as the bonds are still relatively attractive, Nim said. Radhika Rao, executive director and senior economist at DBS Bank, sees a gradual pick-up in passive monthly inflows as Indian bonds get added by two more index providers thisyear. She expects the local central bankto cut rates by 25 basis points in February,and by atotal of 75 basis pointsin the cycle.  REUTERS

39. Image: 8a0a89d0-752a-4ddf-bcae-dbb9d06c0dab.jpg
   Extracted Text: Climate change mitigation needs funding At the fourth edition of the IE Thinc CITIES series, presented by The Indian Express with Omidyar Network India and moderated by Amitabh Sinha, Editor Climate and Science, panellists discussed how municipal bodies can leverage capital markets to solve climate-related problems Oneveryday challenges Abhay Kantak Urban devel- opment,asperthe Constitution, isa statesubject and every state government hasa structure to follow. So, all municipal corpo- rations in the country are not the same. In Maharashtra and Gujarat, municipal corporations provide all kinds of services  water, waste water and solid waste management, hospitals and education. They alsohave a discretionary service called pub- lictransport. So some cities also providethe city bus services. Thisis nottrue forall corpo- rations, The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike ust provides solid waste management, elec- tricity and roads. How do you manage and dispose of your wastetoaddress climate change? Cities like Mumbai provide bus services, so converting them to electricvehicles is achallenge. One of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases are buildings. Howdoyoucreate Development Control Regulations codes that will promote green buildings, reduce the impact of construc- FINANCIAL EXPRESS th c OUR clitles NETWORK INDIA tion and monitor energy con- sumption and, by extension, the greenhouse effect? Ideally, municipal revenues shouldbe 3-4 of thecountrys GP, but are currently at 0.9- 19, Moving to 2 is achiev- able, Property tax, currently at 0.15 of GDP, should be around 196, Property tax also reflects the vibrancy of a citys administration. Profession tax, capped at 22,400 since the 1980s, should increase, as sug- gested by the 14th Finance Commission. Cities also need consumption-linked taxes like octroi, which was replaced by inadequate compensation, hurting municipal income. Fri, 03 January 2025 On climate projects Shekhar Singh There are two approaches to infrastruc- ture projects. One focusses on makingexisting infrastructure disaster-resilient, such as sewagetreatment plants STPs and water treatment plants, which arevulnerable toclimate change impacts like extreme rainfall. The second involves developing new projects that help combat climate change, such as riverfront develop- ment, which includes cleaning riversand upgrading STPs. For instance, in Pimpri-Chinch- wad, the Pavna riverfront development alone costs around 1,400 crore. Another initiative, the 15-minute neighbourhood concept, encourages walking and cycling for dailytasks.The Harit Setu project for this concept costs 2200 crore, with green bonds funding these projects. On climate financing Arnab Choudhury We workasmargin bankers helping municipalities prepare to tap into capital markets. SEBI has https epaper . financialexpress. comc76546213 KEYNOTE SPEAKER ASHWANI BHATIA WHOLE TIME MEMBER, SEBI been progressive in its approach, designing frame- works to promote this, but municipalitiesoftenneed guid- ance. Theyhavetheir challenges andfinanceisonlyone aspectof their responsibilities. We are proudto haveworkedwith three municipalities astyear and con- tinuetobeinvolvedwithothers. While bank, multi-lateral and bilateral loans are available for funding, capital markets offer unique benefits. For instance, when undertaking green pro- jects, capital markets enforce discipline by requiring munici- palitiesto maintain specific key As per the Climate Risk Index 2021, India was the seventh most vulnerable country to climate change. A totalof 21 of the 30 most polluted ities around the world are in India. In the last few years, there havebeen multiple in- stances of flash floods, wildfires and the impact of pollution and heat waves. performance indicators KPIs essential for sustainability. Without this, bilateral transac- tions may allow for compla- cency, with less focus on neces- saryparameters. Capital markets also help municipalitiesstreamline thei operations. Many  have improved their financial prac- tices just by preparing to enter these markets. For example, Guwahati Municipal Corpora- tion, despite using cash-based accounting, is working toadopt double-entry bookkeeping as part of its preparation for mar- ketreadiness. Lastly, municipalities like Guwahati face significant chal- lenges, such as groundwater scarcity and flash floods, com- pounded by limited control over key resources like roads, which are often managed by otheragencies. On civic amenities Santosh Tiwari From birth to death, ULBs Urban Local Bodies play a crucial role. Birth, death and even marriage certificates are provided by ULBs. Beyond these, ULBs ensure access to cleandrinking water, manage sewage and maintain transportation sys- tems. However, the demands have increased. Today, ULBs must provide treated, potable water, requiring multiple levels of treatment. Discharging untreated sewage is no longer acceptable, and tertiary treat- ment, mandated by the NGT, requiressubstantial funding. ULBs must now invest in infrastructure like bridges, fly- overs, ROBs toad overbridges and FOBs foot overbridges to meet growing urban needs. For Vadodara, funding these pro- jectsis crucial Some projectscan bedelayedbut manycannot. On investments Shilpa Kumar Indian cities havebeenmajor contributorsto the countrys growth attracting people in search of livelihoods. Cities are not usteconomic hubs butalsoplaces where peopleseek to build their lives. At a macro level, cities are vital for economic growth, while at a micro While capitalisavailable,the challenge lies in the creditwor- thiness of cities. Investors need clear financial data, such as audited accountsand robustrev- enuestreams,to lowerthe bart ets to investment in municipal bonds. Beyond this, there are global pools of financeavailable forcities to addressclimate mit- igation and adaptation projects, suchasrejuvenating water bodies ot building green spaces. However, access- level, the quality of ing this capital life is shapedbby city requires overcom- governance. From ing technical barri- airquality to access ers, including meet- to parks andclean Scanthe QRcodeto ing specific water, city govern- watch video conditions and mentsplayactitical aligning projects role in managing the scale of urban living. However, Indian Cities face immense challenges, particularly due to the sheer scale of their populations and limited resources. Manycity gov- ernments struggle with inade- quate revenues, often generat- ingless than 50 of what they need annually. with overall city plans. Capacity building is crucial forcitiestotapintoboth munic- ipal bonds and global finance, especially for adaptation pro- jects, which are often smaller and more complex to assess. Pooling projects and breaking down these barriers is key to unlockingnecessary funding.

40. Image: 8bfa8d81-0960-49dc-8d2a-f62555ea36aa.jpg
   Extracted Text: Unlisted shares on a high with rising investor interest SURENDER NEGI New Delhi, January 3 WITH INTEREST IN the unlisted space growing, several smaller firms aredeploying innovative waysto tap smallinvestors. These includebench- marks to track the direction of the space, like the Sensex and the Nifty, andlow-ticket investmentvalue. Thereareatleasttwobenchmarks forthe unlisted space,first of whichis bya company called Wealth Wisdom Indiawith 40 stocks in its Primex 40 Index.As perinformationavailableon itswebsite,theindexwaslaunchedin 2023withabaseof 10,000andiscur- rently at 3,794, 2.27x appreciation inabout 19 months. The firm claims thattheindexisthecountrysfirstlive private market index, with real-time prices of theshares. Some of thewell- known names in the index include Boat, Capgemini, NSE India, TataCap- ital,andPharmEasy. The weightage of the stocks in the basket is capped at 10 to prevent excessive concentra tionand promotediversification. Another such indexis Sharecart Private Market Index, whichstarted with a base of 1,000 around 2022 and is currently at 1,592. Stocks such as NSDL, Oyo, Chennai Super Kings and Bira are available for trade onthe platform. Both these indices hit their life- time highs during this week.Primex 40 Index clocked over 80 returns last year, while for Sharescart, it was neatly 40. In comparison, theSen- sex and the Nifty posted returns of 8.17 and 8.8, respectively. According to a recent report, monthly trading volumes for unlisted shares grew up to 6x from 50-60million in 2023 to300 mil- lion in2024. However,those trying to make a quick buck in the unlisted spaceshouldbewary ofthe pitfallsas thespace isunregulated. Sharescart.is not an investment advisory portal and does not make any investment recommendations THE OTHER SIDE  Primex 40 live 3,794.32 Jan 3, 2025 2,029.36 Jan 1, 2024 and therefore does not require any licence from SebiRBI or regulatory authority in India. Investors are advised to use the data at their own risksitswebsitestates. Markets regulator Sebi, which has been proactively keeping a tab on the space, said in December that such activities transaction in unlisted shares are in violation of Securities Contract Regulation Act, 1956,and Sebi Act, 199 2 whichare, inter alia, laws designed to regulate and protect theinterest of investors insecurities markets. These companiesarealso offering smallerticket-sized invest mentsina bidtogetmoreretail customerscom- pared to some ofthe well-knownbro- kerages which offer unlisted services. While HDFC Securities requires a minimum investment of 25 lakh forunlisted shares, Axis Directneeds 85 lakh, and ICICI 850,000. For smallerfirms, itis much lower. In fact, Incred Money allows to invest ina single share in select stocks like the CSK,trading at 197 on Friday. FINANCIAL EXPRESS 2t 04 January 2025 https epaper. financialex eS

41. Image: 8ce9daea-9e29-4e62-8a96-cc0f79b24594.jpg
   Extracted Text: GICALLIA ICES NCES WITH GLOBAL BHARATI AT Aboost to Act East policy SUBRATTRIPATHY THE 18TH PRAVASI Bharatiya Divas PBD convention, to be held in Bhubaneswar from January 8-10, pethaps gives us an opportune moment to look at the Indian dias- poraandevaluateitstruepotentialin giving shape to the Prime Ministers dreamofa Viksit Bharat. Estimated to be the worlds largest, the Indian diaspora with 35.42 million peopleresidingoutside India as of November 2024 includes 15.85million NRIsand 19.57 million PIOs. It has significant impact on Indias economy, contributing around 3.5 of the countrys GDP. through remittances. In 2023, India retained the top spot with remi tances of 120 billion, nearly two times ahead of Mexico 66 bn and China50 bn. Remittances are critical for any country since they help cushion the adverse impact of any fall in FDI and higher tradedeficit. For India too, the steady flow of remittances has been hugely beneficial and it is estimated totop124billion in 2024and 129 billion in 2025. Apart from the sheer numbers, whatalsoworksin Indiasfavouristhe diverse composition of these remit- tance inflows, which is predicted to provide steadiness incase of economic downturns. The US, the UK, and Sin- gapore,which collectively account for 366 of total remittance flows,arethe primary destinations forhighlyskilled Indian migrantsinthe Irandservices industries. The UAE accounted for 180 of remittance flows, while Saudi Arabia, Kuwait,Oman,and Qatar, col- lectively accounted for11 of Indias totalremittances. The diversification of Indias migrant pool, between a large chunkof highly skilled migrants workingin high-income OECD mar- kets and less skilled migrants in the GCC markets, could impart stability to remittance inflows in the event of external shocks. Leveraging connections Based on thetheme Diasporas Con- FINANCIAL EXPRESS Ad  ee Odisha can unlock its vast potential in industries such as manufacturing, logistics, and tourism, propelling the state towards a prosperous and sustainable future tribution to a Viksit Bharat, the PBD convention is expected to witness 7,500 participants, including NRIs from over 50 countries. The Pravasi Bharatiya Samman Awards will be conferred bythe President. While it is important to drum up noise ontheinflowof funds we would do well to look beyond finance. The first step would be to identify the qualities and traits that we need to harness and imbibe from these suc- cessful people. Once we engage with themtoenlist the skillsthatsetthem apartand contribute to their success, wecanrequestthem for guidanceand mentorship in developing a training programmeand impart therequired expertise to aspiring youth and tal- ented entrepreneurs. Transferring new knowledge and skill, leadership training, sharing of experiences, cre- ating new businesses, and spurring entrepreneurship would be some of the notable benefits from these exchanges. Such conventions also offer net- working opportunitiesto the Indian community across the world. We need to ensure how India gains from these interactions, leverage their goodwilland professional networkto workout dealsin Indias favour. Dias- pora an help actas valuable bridges betweentheiradoptedcountries and homelands, facilitating strategic connections. The Global Indian connection in large corporations has been reaping benefits for India, whether in con- sumer space or in core industrieslike Wed, 08 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress -comc76583908 ey metals andiron and steel. In newer and more challenging segments like semiconductors, EVs, Aland renew- ableenergytoo,it can help Indiagrab the right investments. In this, global Indians have an important role to play.The perception about India has changed,moresoin thelastfewyears. The China-plus-one strategy that promises to transform India intoa manufacturer for the global markets isoneoftheprimaryreasonsprompt- ing many foreigners to look at fruit- fulworkstints in India. Act East Finally, the PBD convention aligns with Indias Act East Policyaimed at fostering economicandculturalties with Southeast Asia.In many ways, Bhubaneswar provides the perfect backdrop forthegrandevent.Richin natural resources, Odishas strategic coastal location and its growing prominence as a metal  mining hotspot, tourismhub, its port-based infrastructurehas generateda lot of enthusiasm. Withits natural deepwater ports, induding Paradip, Dhamra, and Gopalpur, Odishais poisedtoemerge asamajormaritimehub, driving eco- nomic growth, generating employ- ment,andboostingtrade Byleverag- ing its port infra, Odisha can unlock itsvastpotential inindustriessuchas manufacturing, logistics, and tourism, propellingthe state towards aprosperousand sustainable future. Thisneedstobetransformed into action on the ground. No wonder, chief minister Mohan Charan Majhi called it a pivotal moment in the states journey to becomea hub for global investment and cultural exchange. LetOdishashow theway! The authoris president, businessdevelopment, Adani Group io

42. Image: 90b9d927-a9a9-4884-b08e-9e210b439adc.jpg
   Extracted Text: ACROSSTHE   , ey The present generation born after 1991 scarcely believes that there was an India with one television channel, one car, one airline, one telephone service provider, trunk calls, PCOSTDISD booths and long waiting lists for everything from two-wheelers to train tickets to passports. The seeds of change were sowed by Dr Singh, a fact belatedly acknowledged by Prime Minister Modis tribute to him and the Cabinet resolution DR MANMOHAN SINGH, 92, passed away onThursday, December 26, 2024. A con- nection with him that had made on the day he was sworn in as finance minister june 21,1991 came toanend. Manmohan Singh, in his ownwords, was an accidental finance minister. Narasimha Raos first choice as finance ministerwasIG Patel,a respected acade- micand economist. Patel declined, and suggested the name of Manmohan Singh. Many were surprised by the pres- enceof the blue-turbaned,elder-looking gentleman seated in the first row. It was Clear that he would be sworn inasa Cab- inet minister, but what portfolio would the PM give him? Within hours, he was seenat the North Block. Steel within The devaluation of the rupee was announced on July1,1991 bythe RBI.The prime ministercalled me to his office on the moming of July 3 and shared some of his cabinet colleaguesmisgivingsactually, his own misgivings on the devaluation. I natrated the familiar script that the rupee was overvalued, that exports were suffer- ing, that foreign exchange reserves were low, that foreign investors were reluctant to invest in India, and so on. Rao disclosed that therewasonemoredevalu- ation and asked if  would go across tothe finance minister and request him if the second step could be postponed if not aborted. Iwas certain I was not the only FINANCIAL EXP! Few people realise that without Dr Manmohan could not have been launched or implemented Dr Manmohan Singh, emissary hehad deployed. Although sceptical, I bounded off to North Block and wasushered in. twas my first official meeting with the FM.Icon- veyed the request, nota direction, of the prime minister. DrSingh was puzzled  I could seethaton his face by themessage or, perhaps, the messenger. He listened politely and told me that the second step had already been taken within minutes of themarkets opening at 10am.Thestoryof how Dr Singhspoke to Dr. Rangarajan, RBI deputy governor, and the latters famous words I have jumped, are now partofthe folklore surroundingthedeval- uation. That single act stamped Dr Singh  the accidental finance minister  asa determined finance minister with nerves of steeltodowhathe thoughtwastheright thingtodo. That steel was exhibited again a few years later when the survival of the gov- ermmentwas at stake. The proposed India- United States Civil Nuclear Agreement ran into fierce opposition of the Left parties, especially the CPIM.The party general secretary, Mr Prakash Karat, threatened to withdrawsupportto the UPA government ifthe deal was concluded. Many Congress leaders,otherwisesupportive ofthe prime ministerand the deal, hadreservationson sactificing the government fora deal that will any way,be abortedif the government lost its majority. Dr Singh stood firm he told me he would have no option but to Sun, 05 January 2025 2 https epaper. financialexpress.comc76561014 RIP resign if the Congress party forced him to abandon the deal. I saw force in his point but encouraged him to explore support from other parties. In a master stroke, Dr Singh persuaded the former President, Abdul Kalam, to issuea statement of sup- port, and used the statement towin the support of Mulayam Singh Yadavand the Samajwadi party. The bluff of the Left par- ties was called, the government won the vote of confidence, and the deal was con- cluded in due course. Even after the Left parties withdrew support, true to his nature,DrSinghtreated theirleaderswith respect and maintained cordial relations with them. Compassionate liberaliser Few people realise that without Dr Singhs unequivocal support themajorsig- nature programmes of the UPA could not have been launched orimplemented.Two examples, among many, werethe Agricul tural Dept Waiver 2008 and the Right to Food programme 2013. Dr Singh was strongly in favour of both welfare pro- grammes but he repeatedly cautioned me tokeepaneyeontheirimpact onthefiscal deficit. He, more than any political leader, was acutely conscious of the fact that if macto-economicstability waslost,nowel- fareprogrammecouldbeimplemented in themedium orlongrun. When hewassat- isfiedthat the governmentwouldmeetthe target ofthe fiscal deficit, he approved the ghs unequivocal support the major signature programmes of the UPA welfare programmes. Dr Singh was an instinctive reformer but consciously leaned in favour of the poor. He was a strong votary of welfare programmesthat had multiple externalities. He taught us that economicreforms could gohand-in- hand with generous welfare measures. I also firmly believe that Dr Singhs policies createdthe present middleclass. History here The present generation born after 1991 scarcely believes that there was an India with one television channel, one car, oneairline,onetelephoneserviceprovider, trunkcalls,PCOSTDISD boothsandiong waiting lists for everything from two- wheelers to train tickets to passports. The seeds of change were sowed by Dr Singh,a fact belatedly acknowledged by Prime Minister Modis tribute to him and the Cabinet resolution. Whether history willbe kinder to Dr Singh or not, believe that there are two indelible foot prints of Dr Singh on the pages of history one, during his ten-year tenure, he delivered an average GDP growth rate of 6.8. Two, according to UNDP, the UPAlifted outof povertyan esti- mated 270 million people in ten years. Both were unprecedented and not been emulated since. Historys judgment is already here. Website pchidambaram.in XPchidambaram_IN so

43. Image: 91633083-b6ec-4843-852d-f5877cd21a7e.jpg
   Extracted Text: Indian-origin IT companies corner a fifth of H-1B visas PRESS TRUST OF INDIA New Delhi, January 5 LEADING THE PACK INDIAN-ORIGIN TECH COM- PANIES comered a fifth of all H-1B visas issued by the US with Infosys and Tata Consul- tancy Services TCS leading the pack, an analysis of data from the US immigration A department hed paved Paice vans Were According todatafrom the _ssved to Indian-origin firms US Citizenship and Immigra-_  Infosys took the lead with tion Services, inApril-Septem- 8,140 beneficiaries, ber 2024 period,out of thetotal followed byTCS 5,274, 1.3lakhH-1Bvisasissuedtodif- and HCLAmerica 2,953 ferentemployers,about24,766 SSP visas were issued to Indian-ori- PAey resi tesiay gin firms. Out of these, Infosys ER Peeaars ter tar tooktheleadwith Subba ei ciaries, followed by TCS 5,274 eg m snd HeLamenca2.953 isting leeapiate Infosys came secondonlyto RMT Amazon Com Services, which topped with 9,265 visas. Cog- nizant, which was founded in _ ongoingdevelopmentsindicate Chennaibutnowhasheadquar- a need for adaptation in tersin New Jersey, ranked third response to regulatory changes inthelist with 6,321 visas. and public sentiment. The The H-1B visa programme futureofthe H-1Bvisawilllikely allows US firms to temporarily depend on balancingthe needs employ foreignworkersinspe- of the US businesses for skilled cialtyoccupations.Indianfirms _ labourwith broader immigra- havebeensignificantbeneficia- _tionpolicyreforms FlonMusk,a riesofthisprogramme,particu- formerH-1B visa holder whose larlyinthetechnologysector. firm Tesla utilises this pro- Major Indian IT services _gramme,haspubliclysupported firms such as TCS, Infosys, the tech industrys reliance on Wipro, and HCL Technologies foreignworkers. have consistently ranked __Inapost on Xon December amongthetopemployersforH- 28, Musk emphasised the LBvisaholders.Wiprowaslower _ importanceof welcoming indi- down this time with 1,634,visa__viduals from all backgrounds grants. Tech Mahindra stood who contribute to the US close by, having been issued through hard work. He passion- 1,199 visas. ately advocated for preserving While these firms continue America as a land of freedom tobenefitfromtheprogramme, and opportunity. Ofthetotal 1.3L H-1B visas FINANCIAL EXPRESS on. 96 January 02 GS maptows https epaper.finar

44. Image: 9434addf-ea5c-4c70-96ba-8728a90ae99a.jpg
   Extracted Text: upGrad bets on top-uptank-up strategy  URVIMALVANIA Mumbai, January 2 EDTECH FIRM UPGRAD will focus more on high margin businesses like upskilling courses rather than formal education formats in order to drive profitability as it prepares for an initial public offering seven to nine quarters down the line, majority shareholder Ronnie Sctewvala told FE. Profitability will further be dri- ven by the top-up and tank-up phenomena forthe firm,he said,as more professionals in Indialookto acquireadditional skills, and inter- national customers, most notably in the North American market, look to upskill and gain a compet- itiveedge. The firm, which doubled its revenues in FY24 over FY23 is looking at a growth of 35-40 CAGRin future, though growth in the year ending March 2025 will be lower. We wanted to swing completely to everything being profitable. We wanted to see that anything that was too much of a burn for us to get growth, wewill not do it, Screwvala said. This includes dialling back on the university led education verti- cal where the ed-tech firm gets 70 margins as compared to the non-university led modules where margins canbe upwards of 90, he added. Currently, 40 of upGrads total revenue comes from univer- sity dependent programmes. REPORT CARD FY 24 financial snapshot 1 Gross revenue o EBITDA loss 285 Net loss Top-up and tank-up In the non-university pro- grammes upGradseesaclearplayfor upskilling courses, especially com- petitive job markets abroad, and the enterprise segmentiin India. Tank up iswhen Iman empty tank and Ifill thewhole tank. Top up iswhen I think lam going on along drive so why dont I just fill up my tank, even though I dont need to, because it can go all theway? Screw- valaexplained. Inthehighlycompetitivejobmar- kets likethose in the US,5-10 edge over fellow job-seekers helps stand out. As a result, its certification courses find more traction in the US than India. Even with fewer cus- tomersin theintemational markets, thefirmis able todrive value. FINANCIAL EXPRESS ri 03 January 2025 RONNIE SCREWVALA UPGRAD CO-FOUNDER  CHAIRPERSON We wanted to swing com- pletely to everything being profitable. We wanted to see that anything that was too much of a burn for us to get growth, we will not do it. The ARPU average revenue per user is higher. We charge around 40,000 to 50, 000 in India. There wecharge 2,000Over1.70lakhat currentexchangerate.Sothere,they areverysharpabout the top-up that theyneed,whilehere,isallaboutthe tank-up? Screwvala said. Ofcourse, some coursesaremod- elled differently for the US market. For example,a course in digital mar- keting will have different modules basisthemediaand advertising envi- ronment in the two counties. How- ever, for basic tech skill, especially emerging technologies like artificial intelligence, the modules are pretty much the same. The upskilling segment is also allowing upGrad to tap into the enterprise consumer segment as https epaper. financialexpress.comc76546793 more companies focus on upskilling itsworkforcein new technologies. For FY24, the enterprise segment was roughly 20 ofupGradsrevenue,of which AI skill coursescontributed to 20oftherevenue. However, thestrongest contribu- tors continue to be technology and sales courses. For its non-university programmes,upGrad creates courses with educators and industry profes- sionals.Thisallowsit notoniytheflu- idity of structuring the courses, but also margin competitiveness since the intellectual property IP for the said course isowned byit. Omni-channel approach While it started out asan online learning platform, upGrad is now looking at an omni-channel approach to growing its footprint. It hasstartedlaunchingphysicalcoun- selling and learning centres across the country. The pivot to non-university-led education is also driving the omni- channel strategy as conversion rates forupskillingprogrammesarehigher when there isa physical counselling option. These counselling centres are not whereweare teaching. These areaiding the online educationverti- cal, Weare counselling so they can come online. When one is talkingon thephone,thecommon responseisI shallthinkaboutitbutwhen onesits down face to face and hasan hour- Jong conversation, the conversion rates are 12-200 higher? Screw- valasaid. The firm currently has 28 such counselling centres across Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, and is looking to open more in cities like Delhi NCR, and Pune. It is adding around5-7 centresa month. Formarkets like Kolkata, upGrad islooking to open learning centres offering short courses which make Jeamers more skill and job-ready. It has five to seven such learning cen- tres in citieslike Puneand Indore. Thesearenotdegree coursesbut certification courses of three to six months. Wearealsoveryfrugalwhen itcomestoopeningthese centres. The benchmark costofopeningonesuch centre is 14-18 lakh. By the third month,theyare opexbreakeven,and by the end of ayear they are capex breakeven,Screwvala said. hc at PRESS New D MAHI ward t confid toachi ingtoi Anish  In cemplo over tl accele andits tious g allcyli we confid toachi contin audaci cipline achiev Ref has be dimen surpas Credit turin ties ar tions, cover GDP, meani theses we

45. Image: 97992464-017b-4914-a48a-405795dd9baf.jpg
   Extracted Text: INVESTING STRATEGY IN 2025 PORTFOLIO MIX Keep equities at 60, fixed income at 40  Stick to SIPs, STPs to avoid market timing risks SAIKAT NEOGI AMID GROWING VOLATILITY and moderate return expectations from equities this year, experts suggest investorsshouldlookataportfolioof 60 in equities, 30 in fixed income and 100 in gold. Large-cap funds are expected to outperform small-andmid-capsin thenear term dueto premium market valuations. In an environment of elevated valuations, focusing on quality growth stocks with strong funda- mentals, sustainable earnings, and reasonablevaluation metrics iskey. Investors should prioritise compa- nieswith consistent cash flows and lowerleverage.Goldcan beaccessed through exchange traded funds while real estate investments may bemade via realestate investment trusts forflexibility. Investorsshould sticktosystem- atic investment plans and system- atic transfer plans to avoid market timing risks. Moreover, portfolio rebalancing should be guided by a disciplined approach rather than market timing. In fact, investors should set thresholds for asset allo- cation deviations and a quarterly reviewcan helprealign investments with long-term goals. Vivek Sharma, head, Investment, Estee Advisors, says a balanced DIVERSIFIED APPROACH Returns in 2024 as Re in  eet Gold TR 23.34 1,23,340 Silver HE 21.12 1,21,120 irae office e.g lyearFD SBI 6.8 EPF i 225 small-cap Ey Mido ETE Large-cap Gs  119,600 Senior Citizens Savings Scheme PPF HBs2 Ba. Source Bankbazaar. Focus on quality growth stocks with strong fundamentals, sustainable ear reasonable valuation metrics 1,08,200 1,07,100 periods Avoid the temptation to pursue fleeting market trends or chase the past years outperforming sectors Large-cap funds offer stability during volatile fiona Debt Invest with moderate  ml Focus on gilt and retums expectations corporate bond funds Dynamic bond funds offer flexibility in a volatile environment Periodically rebalance portfol to align with investment goals, riskappetite  weather various market conditions approach, suchas 60 investments in equities and 40 in debt is suit- able for most investors this year. adding real estateto your portfolio can enhance diversification, he says. Similarly, Nirav Karkera, head, Research, Fisdom, sayssectoralrota- tion presents opportunitiesininfor mation technology, pharma, tex- tiles, and select consumer stocks. Sectorslinked to infrastructureand FINANCIAL EXPRESS 2 04 January 2025 capex,as well as consumer discre- tionary sectors like tourism and automotive, show growth poten- tialhe adds. Fixed-income allocation Investors should review their fixed-income portfolios to ensure they align with investment goals and risk tolerance. A diversified approach with government bonds, corporate debt, and other fixed- https epaper. financialexpress.comc76551001 income instrumentsis key for sta- bilityand predictablereturns.Grad- ually increasing exposure to long- term debt can help capitalise on declining interest rates while man- aging timing risks. A systematic approach, such as investing in dynamicbondfunds,helpsnavigate volatility. Investors should prefer a barbell strategycombining short-term instruments for liquidity and high- qualitylong-maturity debt foryield. Sonam Srivastava, founder, Wright Research, says gradual exposure to long-maturity debt can be consid- ered, but only if rates stabilise or decline. For 2025, maintaining exposure to floating-rate bonds or inflation-indexed securities can pro- vide additional protection,shesays. Anil Rego, founder, Right Hori- zons, says the liquidity easing mea- suresbythe Reserve Bankofindia in its December 2024 meeting signal a possible rate cut by end of FY25, likely leading to adeclinein bond yields and price appreciation. We prefer medium-and long-maturity bonds dueto their appealing yield and thepotential for priceapprecia- tion? he says. Investors must avoid the temp- tation to pursue fleeting market trends or chase the past years out- performing sectors. Instead, they should focuson maintainingawell- rounded portfoliothat can weather variousmarket conditions. Rebalancing demands disci- pline,as itoften involvescounterin- tuitive decisions, like selling your winnersandbuying underperform- ingassets. Sharma of EsteeAdvisors, says investing can evoke fear in downturns and greed duringrallies, butrebalancing onapre-scheduled basisannuallyorsemi-annually helps you make choices rooted in logic rather than sentiment. While this may not appeal to your emotional instincts, itis often the right choice forlong-term success, hesays.

46. Image: 97d5c13f-aebc-4d5a-bd99-84a824343bba.jpg
   Extracted Text: The rise and fall of Dunzos Kabeer Biswas ANEES HUSSAIN Bengaluru, January 3 INTHE STREETS of Bengaluru in 2014, Kabeer Biswas used to coordinate deliveries through WhatsApp groups, personally responding to customer requestsand managing the first 8,000 deliveries of what would become Dunzo. The tise was depart, and investors pulling theplug, Biswasisorchestrating what couldbe his finalact at the company Finding a buyerwill- ing toassume Dunzos mount- ing debt andliabilities. Biswas, holding a 3.39 stake, remains tied to the com- pany by necessity  corporate lawrequiresaminimumoftwo directors, prevent- ing his departure spectacular for By 2022,the firm untileitherasaleis Biswas. By 2016, achievedabillion- completed or the Dunzo became a dollarvaluation, company is liqui- verb synonymous well andtruly._dated.Aplantosell with convenient setting inmotion iscurrentlyunder- hyperlocal deliv- thehabit of way, marking the ery in India and conclusion of. boasted millions Convenient delivery piswassjourneyat ofusers.By2022, assecondnature  Dunzo. the company Early Dunzo achieved a billion- dollarvaluation, well and truly setting in motion the habit of convenient delivery as second nature in India  effects of which are nowbeingenjoyedby the likes of Zepto, Blinkit,and Instamart. But the world has since turned upsidedown forthe 40- year-old MBA from Narsee Monji Institute of Manage- ment Studies. Aftergoing with- out asalary for 20 months and watching his co-founders FINANCIAL EXPRESS users remembera founder deeply involved in the day-to-dayoperations.Onecus- tomer shared a WhatsApp screenshotwheresherequested delivery of a large electronic appliance thatwouldntfitona bike, Biswass response was characteristic of his hands-on approach  he didnt dismiss the request but instead pro- posed a solution, suggesting a four-wheeler at an extra cost. This approach of not saying no to any problem-solving needs Sat, 04 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress. comc765 the consumer had, became and cost of quick commerce. Dunzoseatly differentiator in While our competitors were themarket,fromregularpar- focused on unit economics, we col deliveries,toleaky faucets, were trying to solve inventory Dunzo could getit all done. management with tech solu- Its popularity with con- tions that looked good on paper sumers attracted Googles first but didnt translate to the real direct startup investment in world, a senior ex-employee Indiaa12.3 million SeriesB would lateradmit. round in 2017, for a 19.3 stake. This came when many investors were hesitant about the hyperlocal delivery space, with several similar ventures struggling to survive. At the time, Google had cited Dunzos ability to execute as the reason to invest in the company. The trajectory shifted sig- nificantly in 2022 when Relianceinvested 240million fora 27.6 stake, according to Tracxn.Atone stage, Biswassnet worth was estimated at over 6,000 crore. The Reliance investment led to aggressive expansion plans anda pivotto quick commerce through Dunzo Daily. We underestimated the complexity Cash-tich competitors like Zepto, Blinkitand Swiggy nsta- mart quickly moved far ahead in the quick commerce space, leaving a gap too wide for Dunzo to catch up. In an effort torecalibrate, Dunzoexitedthe segment, and got back to its original model of hyperlocal deliveries for nearby grocery stores and those on the ONDC network Italsotried tobecome adelivery partner for retailers and merchants who had their own online stores, but had to revert to its B2C model as it lacked funds to expandin the B2Bsegment. The past 18 months have seen Biswas attempting to res- cue his startup. From negotia- tions with Reliance Retail foran investment of around  20 mil- lion, to its efforts to raise 22- 25 million through external investors, nothing seems to have panned out as potential investors donot seemtobe con- vinced ofits abilitytorevive. One of the service level agreements the PORTRAIT SHYAMKUMARPRASAD. company had with Reliance, was toturn cash flow positive. By FY23, Dunzoslosses had jumpedto 1,801 crorein FY23 from 464 crore in FY22. Though the companys FY24 financials are not available, internal sources suggest Dunzo nowoperateswith 40,000 daily ordersand 50 employees,down from its peak workforce of The startup that raised nearly 470 million since inception andonce exemplified Indian entrepreneurial success now servesasa cautionary tale about the perils of rapid expan- sion and shifting focus from core strengths. From its peak valuation of 770 million, industry insiders now estimate Dunzos acquisition value 2,000. This has Though the between 25-30 helped the com- pany breakeven, with a massively companys FY24 financials are not million. Biswas _ has been _ pitching reduced scale, available,internal new ventures to Howeveraccumu- sources suggest VCs_ alongside lated debt of Dunzo now Ankur Aggarwal, around600crore perateswith _eventothelikesof makes recovery g9.999 daily orders PeakXV. Accord- difficult without external interven- and 50 employees ing to filings with the Ministry of tion,theyadded. MEE Corporate Affairs, The companys financial troubles have also led to legal problems,with agroupofcredi- torsfiling aninsolvencyapplica- tion inJuly,alleging partialclear- ance of dues. Meanwhile, all ex-employees are still awaiting a resolution on promised salaries, After the roadblock in raising funds became clear to Biswas, he even wrote to employees urging them not to take legal action as this would only delaytheongoing process Biswas and AnkurAgarwal re istered anewventure, Nexavise Solutions, in June 2024. How- ever, plans to pursue this new initiative have been shelved. He is limited by certain non- compete clauses in his agree- mentwith Reliance,at least for the time being. As all doors are being shut on him, Biswas has no option but to come to terms with the proverb  what goes up must come down.

47. Image: 99a39638-06e8-4bc0-9eb9-021da09246e6 (1).jpg
   Extracted Text: Zomato  Swiggy may continue 710 fee after festivities ANEES HUSSAIN Bengaluru, January 3 FOOD DELIVERY PLATFORMS Zomato and Swiggy are likely to continue charging customers the increased platform fee of 10 per order even after the festive season ends, sources aware of the matter told FE. The platforms had raised their fees to 10 in October 2024, citing increased demand during the fes- tive period. The fee, which attracts an additional 18 GST, means customers currently pay 811.8 on every order placed through the platforms. With both platforms delivering around 150,000- 200,000 orders each per day and applying the fee uniformly to all customers  including premium subscribers of Zomato Gold and Swiggy One who enjoy free deliv- ery benefits on minimum order values  it is seen asa significant push towards profitability. Whilethe platform feeisborne directly by customers and not restaurants, the National Restau- rant Association of India NRAI sees it as a positive development that could potentially ease the commission burden on restaurants. Pranav M Rungta, vice presi- dent, NRAI, said aggregators should continue with the increased platform fee as this translates to reduced pressure through commissions on restau- rants. The ideal way for a food delivery platform to earn is when the consumer is paying for that convenience. In fact, wewill only see this fee going up in the coming years, as users seem to have taken well to the idea of paying forconvenience. Both platforms reported record number of orders this festive period, as compared to previous years, Rungta said. Platform fees, which are charged separately from restau- rant charges,delivery feesand GST, have seen progressive increases since their introduction. Swiggy pioneered the concept in April 2023 with amodest 22 fee, whilst Zomato followed suit in August 2023. Both platforms have since implemented multiple increases, with Swiggy imple- menting risesto 5 in Apriland 6 in July last year, before the current 810 rate. In 2023, Zomato had increased the fee to 3 before rais- ing it again in January 202.4to 4. It had temporarily hiked the plat- form fee to 9 on December 31, 2023.Thecurrentfee representsa 400 rise from the initial intro- duction forboth platforms. Zomatos app notification regarding the latest increase in October last year stated, This fee helps us pay our bills to keep FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, https epaper 2 ate PRICING WAR 210platformfee since Oct 2024 customers pay 211.8 with GST 150,000-200,000 Cerin Dee ere mswiggy lm swiggy introduced 22 raised fee in Apr 2023 fees to 5 Zomato Apr 2024, followedwith 6 ul 2024, 23 inAug 2023  210 Oct 2024 Pal CPUC Eke ey Platform  Restaurants feesincreased pay upto 40 400 since  in commissions launch and costs Prec  Commissions 15-30 orders during payments Baa Caer 1.8 promotions Zomato running.To maintain ser- vices during the festive rush, ithas increased slightly. Swiggy followed suit within hours, implementing the hike under a festive season platform fee nomenclature, citing similar reasons of maintaining smooth operations through a period of increased demand. The cost for a restaurant or merchant to acquire an order on Swiggy, or Zomato, often go up to 400 of the total order value. This includes commissionswhich could range from 15-30 depending on size and relationship with the aggregator and other costs for pay- ment handling1.8,and forpr motion and discounts on the app 5-109. We have been urging the aggregators to reduce this burden on the restaurants, and the way to do that is by charging the con- sumer a platform fee per order, Rungtaadded. Swiggy and Zomato did not respond toa request for comments atthe time of going to the press. 4 January 2025

48. Image: 99a39638-06e8-4bc0-9eb9-021da09246e6.jpg
   Extracted Text: Zomato  Swiggy may continue 710 fee after festivities ANEES HUSSAIN Bengaluru, January 3 FOOD DELIVERY PLATFORMS Zomato and Swiggy are likely to continue charging customers the increased platform fee of 10 per order even after the festive season ends, sources aware of the matter told FE. The platforms had raised their fees to 10 in October 2024, citing increased demand during the fes- tive period. The fee, which attracts an additional 18 GST, means customers currently pay 811.8 on every order placed through the platforms. With both platforms delivering around 150,000- 200,000 orders each per day and applying the fee uniformly to all customers  including premium subscribers of Zomato Gold and Swiggy One who enjoy free deliv- ery benefits on minimum order values  it is seen asa significant push towards profitability. Whilethe platform feeisborne directly by customers and not restaurants, the National Restau- rant Association of India NRAI sees it as a positive development that could potentially ease the commission burden on restaurants. Pranav M Rungta, vice presi- dent, NRAI, said aggregators should continue with the increased platform fee as this translates to reduced pressure through commissions on restau- rants. The ideal way for a food delivery platform to earn is when the consumer is paying for that convenience. In fact, wewill only see this fee going up in the coming years, as users seem to have taken well to the idea of paying forconvenience. Both platforms reported record number of orders this festive period, as compared to previous years, Rungta said. Platform fees, which are charged separately from restau- rant charges,delivery feesand GST, have seen progressive increases since their introduction. Swiggy pioneered the concept in April 2023 with amodest 22 fee, whilst Zomato followed suit in August 2023. Both platforms have since implemented multiple increases, with Swiggy imple- menting risesto 5 in Apriland 6 in July last year, before the current 810 rate. In 2023, Zomato had increased the fee to 3 before rais- ing it again in January 202.4to 4. It had temporarily hiked the plat- form fee to 9 on December 31, 2023.Thecurrentfee representsa 400 rise from the initial intro- duction forboth platforms. Zomatos app notification regarding the latest increase in October last year stated, This fee helps us pay our bills to keep FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, https epaper 2 ate PRICING WAR 210platformfee since Oct 2024 customers pay 211.8 with GST 150,000-200,000 Cerin Dee ere mswiggy lm swiggy introduced 22 raised fee in Apr 2023 fees to 5 Zomato Apr 2024, followedwith 6 ul 2024, 23 inAug 2023  210 Oct 2024 Pal CPUC Eke ey Platform  Restaurants feesincreased pay upto 40 400 since  in commissions launch and costs Prec  Commissions 15-30 orders during payments Baa Caer 1.8 promotions Zomato running.To maintain ser- vices during the festive rush, ithas increased slightly. Swiggy followed suit within hours, implementing the hike under a festive season platform fee nomenclature, citing similar reasons of maintaining smooth operations through a period of increased demand. The cost for a restaurant or merchant to acquire an order on Swiggy, or Zomato, often go up to 400 of the total order value. This includes commissionswhich could range from 15-30 depending on size and relationship with the aggregator and other costs for pay- ment handling1.8,and forpr motion and discounts on the app 5-109. We have been urging the aggregators to reduce this burden on the restaurants, and the way to do that is by charging the con- sumer a platform fee per order, Rungtaadded. Swiggy and Zomato did not respond toa request for comments atthe time of going to the press. 4 January 2025

49. Image: 99f3abd1-a313-43b6-83b6-6e0c111d1398.jpg
   Extracted Text: Norms for capex release... THE BALANCE OF 355,000 MNIMISING SHORTFALL crore is untied advances to states for projects identified by Centres interest-free 50-year capex loans to states the states. 200 crore According to the latest Fy21m 1? m Budget estimate amendment to the norms, the 11,830 Actual states which have faced natural disasters of severe nature in 2024-25, as confirmed by the home ministry panel, will be provided additional allocation of up to 50 of the amount already allocated under the untied category. This amount would have to be used by the affected states for reconstruc- tion of infrastructure preferably indisaster-affected districtsand for projects to mitigate future disasters. Also, the states which have utilised the first installment ria, the Centre allocated of 2024-25 orin the first three under the untied categoryand 25,000croreasanincentive quarters of 2024-25 over the have availed the second install-_ forstates capex performance _ growth rate in the correspond- ment would be provided an 50 for achieving over 10 __ingperiod of 2023-24, will also additional allocation of up to on-year capex growth in FY24 _beconsidered for grantofincen- 100 ofthe original tonorth _andthebalance 50forachiev- _ tives. Amongothers, the Centre eastandhillstatesand 50 for ingover 10growthinthefirst also amended conditions the original allocation for other six months of FY25. Funds related tourbanandrural infra- states, on a first-come-first- wouldbeallocatedamongstates structure projects and incen- servebasis. in proportion to their share of _ tives forimplementation of the These two amendments central taxes andduties asper_ SNASPARSH Model for just-in- would increase the aggregate the award of the 15thFinance Time release of funds under Fy22l 20,000 14,186 Up to December 31 flow of untied loans to states Commission. centrally sponsored schemes. substantially as againsttheini- _ Theamendmenttothecon- These would ensure that loans tialallocation of 855,000 crore dition says that in addition to earmarked for these purposes for FY25. states which qualify for incen- would befully utilisedbystates. The Centre has also eased tives for achieving morethan _A new part has been intro- several conditions under the 10growthincapitalexpendi-._ ducedundertiedloansthat ear- tied component of the loan, _tureinthe firsthalfof 2024-25, marks 5,000 crore loans to including the one related to states which achieve growth _ stateswhichhaveundertakenor owncapexachievement bythe rate of more than 10 in Q2_ undertaking urban planning states. Asperthe original crite- plusQ3ulytoDecember2024 reforms in FY25. Indices soar nearly 2 EQUITY INDICES OF China, Research, Wealth Manage- positive, with 2,395 advances Hong Kong, and Thailand ment, Motilal OswalFinancial against 1,574 declines. The declined by upto 2.66, while Services. broader market indices, BSE Indonesia up 1.18, Aus- Many foreign brokerages Midcapand BSESmallcap rose tralia up 0.53, and Singa-_arealsonow bullish on India. _ by 0.89 and 0.68, respec- pore up 0.35 ended with Investors in Indian stocks tively. gains. Except for the US and should shift focus from book-_ Investors wealth surged by Japan,mostmajorequitymar- ing profitstobecomingselec- 6.04 lakh crore to 450.5 kets resumed trading after _ tive buyers, given the govern- lakh crore. Christmasand New Yearcele- ments capital expenditure _Eicher Motorswas the top brations. plans aimed at fuelling Nifty gainer, rising 8.55. Interestingly, foreign port- growth, analysts at Bernstein _Aftera 3.26gain on Wednes- folio investors FPIs were net _ said while Jefferies is opti- day, Maruti Suzuki rose buyers, purchasing shares mistic about the countrys another 5.5 on Thursday. worth 1,506.75 crore, while industrial stocks ahead of the Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, domestic institutional Budget, according to a and Shriram Finance were investorsbought shares worth Bloombergreport. other top Nifty performers. 22.14crore. Inthe broad-based rally, all Experts believe that some We expect the gradual sectoral indices on the BSE _ short covering by FPIs likely uptick tocontinuein themar- ended inthe green. The auto occurred, as they were sitting ket over the next few days, sector led with a 3.79gain, on substantial short positions. alongside a close watch on Q3_ followed by IT2.26, con- Overseas investors bearish earnings and global cues as sumer durables 1.89, bets on Nifty futures as of foreign markets reopen after _ financial services1.64,and __ Wednesday were the highest year-end holidays, said Sid-__privatebanks 1.41. since Juneofthepreviousyear, dhartha Khemka, Head of The market breadth was according toBloomberg data. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Fri 2 January 2025 eS taprowe https epaper . financialexpress.comc765495

50. Image: 9fb54b4e-80e9-443f-b96f-8fec309936af.jpg
   Extracted Text:  RADHIKA GUPTA, MD  CEO, EDELWEISS ASSET MANAGEMENT COMPANY Taking the middle path with diverse investments is key The stock market has been going through tough times but the good newsis that retailinvestorshave continued to investin systematic investment plansSIPS says Radhika Gupta, MD CEO, Edel- tweissAsset Management Comparyt. Gupta tells Akshata Gorde that the SIPbook, currently at 25,000crore a month, willrise to 80,000-90,000 crore by 2030. Excerpts How doyouseethe stock market in 2025? What kindof assetallocation would you prescribe? Theyear2024 sawelectionsin three major markets, the startof the rateautcycleinthe USandnotable outflows by foreigninstitutional investors. Moving into 2025, the focuswillshifttocorporate eamings, whichcan drive themarkets forward. Several stocks haveralliedon earnings expectations,andthe comingyearwilltesttheirdelivery. Forinvestors,maintaininga disciplined approach to asset alloca tion remains crucial.Inequities, large-capvaluationsappearfair, while mid-andsmall-caps are trad- ingat a 10-30 premium to histo- rical averages.A balanced allocation across lexi-capand multi-cap strategies avoiding extreme tilts. One shouldmaintaina healthyallocation todebtand even international equities. Amiddle-path approach with diversified investments and long-term focuswillbethe key. Despite the FPI selling and profit booking byinvestorstowardsthe end oftheyear,the mutualfund SIP book has hit reoondlevelsof 25,000 crore.Will thiscontinue? es,wedo see the SIPbookconti- nuing to grow structurally People are embracing SIPsasa structural way of saving and value costaveraging.In fact, Ibelieve the word SIPhas become more popular thanmutual fund? With thenumber ofnew investors joining, there will alwaysbesome tapering off of thefrothordosingof short- term SIPsperhaps5-10 ofthebook Butlm optimistic that by theend of the decade, Indias SIP book could grow to 80,000-90,000 crore. Thereareconcemsofa slowdown in earnings growth alongwith the possibilityof eamingsdowngrades inthecoming quarters.Thesehave prompted some fund houses to hold cash levelsashighas 50-80. FINANCIAL EXPRESS ri 93 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress -comc76543738 Doyou share thoseconcems? We focus heavily on earnings growth actossall our portfolio firms, asit remainsacoredriver of market growth. In ourlong-only funds, we followastrict policy ofnotholding more than 5 cash. When investors allocate money to,say,alarge-capor mid-cap fund,theyexpectusto remain largely fully invested in those segments. Assetallocation decisions arebest made by investorsand their advisors outside the fund. Our core expertise isin stock selectionand sectorrotation,and not intiming themarket, Thatswhywe maintain minimal cash levels. However, weare extremelyagilein our fund management approach. Weare constantlylooking tofind investable opportunities,and move our portfolios. Sebi has recently notifiedrules and dligibilityforthenew asset class specialised investment funds.Do youseean opportunity? Weteveryexcited,and while many plansare inthe works itsabit earlyto share specifics. That said, there area couple of opportunitieswhere invest- mentstrategies can becreated,such as credit focused strategies, more concentrated equity, andlong-short. PEOPLE ARE EMBRACING SIPs AS A STRUCTURAL WAY OF SAVING AND VALUE COST AVERAGING

51. Image: EPaper-International_02-01-2025_G0LDPVV2R.1.png
   Extracted Text: Ukraine halts transit of Russian gas to Europe Associated Press KYIV Ukraine on Wednesday halted Russian gas supplies to European customers through its pipeline net- work after a pre-war transit deal expired at the end of last year. Ukraines Energy Minis- ter Herman Halushchenko confirmed on Wednesday morning that Kyiv had stopped the transit in the interest of national securi- ty. This is a historic event. Russia is losing mar- kets and will incur finan- cial losses. Europe has al- ready decided to phase out Russian gas, and this aligns with what Ukraine has done today, Mr. Ha- lushchenko said in an up- date on the Telegram mes- saging app. At a summit in Brussels last month, Ukrainian Pre- sident Volodymyr Zelen- skyy vowed that Kyiv would not allow Moscow to use the transits to earn additional billions... on our blood, on the lives of our citizens. But he had briefly held open the possi- bility of the gas flows conti- nuing if payments to Russia were withheld until the war ends. Russian _ state-owned energy company Gazprom said in a statement on Wed- nesday that it has no tech- nical and legal possibility of sending gas through Uk- raine, due to Kyivs refusal to extend the deal. Even as Russian troops Key link An underground gas storage facility in Lviv, Ukraine. AFP and tanks moved into Uk- raine in 2022, Russian nat- ural gas kept flowing through the countrys pi- peline network to Europe, under a five-year agree- ment. Gazprom earned money from the gas and Ukraine took transit fees. Before the war, Russia supplied nearly 40 of the EUs pipeline natural gas. Gas flowed through four pi- peline systems, one under the Baltic Sea, one through Belarus and Poland, one through Ukraine and one under the Black Sea through  Turkiye to Bulgaria. Energy crisis After the war started, Rus- sia cut off most supplies through the Baltic and Be- larus-Poland pipelines, cit- ing disputes over a de- mand for payment in roubles. The Baltic pipe- line was blown up in an act of sabotage, but details of the attack remain murky. The Russian cutoff caused an energy crisis in Europe. Germany had to shell out billions of euros to set up floating terminals to import liquefied natural gas that comes by ship. Us- ers cut back as prices rose. Norway and the U.S. filled the gap, becoming the two largest suppliers.

52. Image: EPaper-International_02-01-2025_G0LDPVV35.1.png
   Extracted Text: Will accept the Supreme Courts decision on Dallewal stir Centre Farmer leaders hunger strike enters 37th day groups leading the protest say they will not relent unless demands are met Samyukt Kisan Morcha turns down invitation for discussions extended by a committee constituted by the Supreme Court The Hindu Bureau NEW DELHI CHANDIGARH nion Agriculture U Minister _Shivraj Singh Chouhan said here on Wednesday that the Centre will abide by the Supreme Courts di- rections on the indefinite hunger strike by farmer leader Jagjit Singh Dalle- wal. The Supreme Court is looking into the matter. We will accept whatever deci- sion the top court takes, Mr. Chouhan said at a press conference. However, farmer and farm labourer groups that have been camping on the inter-State boundary of Punjab and Haryana since February 13, 2024 declared they would not relent un- less their demands are met, even as Mr. Dallewals hunger strike entered the 37th day. Farmer outfits are seek- ing a legal guarantee for purchasing their crops at a minimum support price MSP and a farm loan waiver, among other de- mands. Farmers under the ban- ner of the Kisan Mazdoor Morcha KMM and Samy- ukta Kisan Morcha Non- Political, the two umbrella bodies spearheading the farmers agitation in Pun- jab, are camping at Shamb- hu-Ambala and Khanauri- Jind on the inter-State boundary, after being stopped from entering Haryana. KMM coordinator Sar- wan Singh Pandher said, Dallewaljis fast unto death continues for the 37th consecutive day, but the Centre is in slumber. We will continue to strug- gle until our demands are met. Dates for the Delhi march will be announced AGRICULTURES FARMERS WELFARE MIN ENT OF INDI. For a way out Union Agriculture Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan during a meeting with officials at Krishi Bhavan in New Delhi. Pri in the coming days, he said. He asked the Aam Aad- mi Party government in Punjab to pass a resolution in favour of the farmers demands in the Assembly. Besides, the AAP govern- ment should reject the Centres draft National Pol- icy Framework on Agricul- tural Marketing, he ad- ded. A group of 101 farmers had made attempts to res- tart their foot march from Punjab to the national cap- ital on December 6, De- cember 8 and December 14. However, in the wake of elaborate security arrange- ments put in place by the Haryana  government, their foot march had come toa halt. The Samyukt Kisan Mor- cha SKM, the umbrella organisation of about 500 farmers organisations, has turned down the invitation for discussions extended by a high-powered com- mittee constituted by the Supreme Court. The com- mittee, headed by former High Court judge, Justice Nawab Singh, had invited the SKM to join its meeting on Friday. SKM in principle does not accept intervention of the Court because the farmers are fighting on pol- icy issues with the Centre and hence the Court has no role to play. In this con- text, SKM expresses its in- ability to accept the invita- tion for the discussion by the SC-appointed High Po- wered Committee, the SKM said in a statement. FARM FIRE  PAGES

53. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-27 173150.png
   Extracted Text: Nation mourns former PM Manmohan Singh, economist-ruler credited with liberalisation He passed away at AIIMS on Thursday night after falling unconscious at home Sandeep Phukan NEW DELHI ormer Prime Minis- F Manmohan Singh, 92, passed away at the All India Insti- tute of Medical Sciences here on Thursday evening. Dr. Singh was admitted to the hospital in the emer- gency ward around 8 p.m. in a critical condition. He was treated for age-related medical conditions and had sudden loss of con- sciousness at home. Resus- citative measures were started immediately at home. He was brought to the medical emergency at AIIMS Delhi at 8.06 pm. Despite all efforts, he could not be revived and was de- clared dead at 9.51 p.m. an AIIMS bulletin said. He is survived by his wife, Gurcharan Singh, and three daughters. Dr. Singh, who was PM for two terms in the Con- gress-led United Progres- sive Alliance government from 2004 to 2014, had been in poor health for the past few months. As Fi- nance Minister under former Prime Minister PV. Narasimha Rao, he was the architect of reforms in 1991 that changed the course of Indias economic trajectory. As a mark of respect to the former Prime Minister, all Union government functions were cancelled and a seven-day national mourning was declared. The Union Cabinet will meet on Friday morning to pass a condolence resolu- tion. Dr. Singhs last rites will be performed with full state honours. Paying her tribute to the former Prime Minister in a post on X, President Drou- padi Murmu described Dr. Singh as one of the great- President Droupadi Murmu describes Singh as one of the greatest sons of Bharat A lasting imprint on Ind external relations NEW DELHI Although he was sometimes criticised by the Opposition for being maun or silent, Manmohan Singh was a prolific communicator when it came to his foreign policy. His engagement with the Quad made way for two of his biggest foreign policy breakthroughs with Japan, that ended Indis isolation over the nuclear tests of 1998, and with the United States, which allowed for the civil nuclear deal. est sons of Bharat. Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji was one of those rare polit- icians who also straddled the worlds of academia and administration with equal ease. In his various roles in public offices, he made critical contributions to reforming Indian econo- my. He will always be re- membered for his service to the nation, his unblem- ished political life and his Modi says as PM, Singh made extensive efforts to improve peoples lives Coeur 1932 - 2024 utmost humility. His pass- ing is a great loss to all of us. I pay my respectful homage to one of the great- est sons of Bharat and con- vey my heartfelt condo- ences to his family, friends A forthright FM who effected social change NEW DELHI Itis well known that Manmohan Singh made way for foreign investments in myriad sectors. Yet, few would remember his maiden Budget also set the foundations of Indias modern stock market boom with the creation of SEBI. Or that he passionately batted for consumer interests as well as wealth creators, even as he held reservations against mindless and heartless conspicuous consumerism, and admirers, she said. Offering tributes to his predecessor, Prime Minis- ter Narendra Modi said In- dia mourns the loss of one of its most distinguished leaders whose wisdom and Government functions cancelled and seven-day national mourning declared. humility were always visi- ble. Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji. Rising from humble ori- gins, he rose to become a respected economist. He served in various govern- ment positions as well, in- cluding as Finance Minis- ter, leaving a strong imprint on our economic policy over the years. His interventions in Parlia ment were also insightful. As our Prime Minister, he made extensive efforts to improve peoples lives, Mr. Modi said on X. Congress Parliamentary Party chairperson Sonia Gandhi and her daughter Priyanka Gandhi Vadra reached the hospital as soon as news of his hospi- talisation became known. Congress president Malli- karjun Kharge and Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha Rahul Gandhi, who were in Karnatakas Belagavi for an extended meeting of the Congres Working Committee rushed back to Delhi. In a post on X, Mr Kharge said India has lost visionary statesman, leader of unimpeachable integrity, and an econo mist of unparalleled sta ture, and asserted tha story will undoubtedly judge him kindly. A mar of action rather thar words, his immense contri bution to nation-buildin will be etched in the annal of Indian history. Manmohan Singh Ji lec India with immense wis dom and integrity. His hu mility and deep under standing of economic inspired the nation. My heartfelt condolences t Mrs. Kaur and the family. have lost a mentor anc guide. Millions of us wh admired him will remem ber him with the utmos pride, Mr. Gandhi said.

54. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-27 173255.png
   Extracted Text: Over 10.58 lakh votes were not counted or rejected Over 10.58 lakh votes were not counted or rejected in the Lok Sabha election held earlier this year, says a detailed statistical report released by the Election Commission on Thursday. Of these, 5,35,825 were postal votes and 5,22,513 were votes cast in electron- ic voting machines. According to the data, which was released as part of a comprehensive set of 42 statistical reports for the Lok Sabha election, show that more than 97.97 crore citizens had registered themselves as voters as against the over 91.19 crore in 2019. which is an in- m 2024 LS election in numbers As many as 86 of the over 8,360 candidates who contested the Lok Sabha elections lost their deposits  Votes not countedrejected ay 10.58 iakn including 5.36 lakh postal votes   Total polling stations Total Women 10.51, tlectors  votes 2 97.97  47.63  Acrge   Numberof crore crore electors per Independent     pollingstation  candidates Total voters  Female voter 64.64 tumnow 930139217 crore 65.78   women candidates 800 crease of 7.43. votes, 9,634 were ten- Out of these registered dered votes, which means electors, 64.64 crore voted _ that there were incidents in 2024. Of the votes cast, where impersonators vot- 63.89 crore were valid. ed in the name of genuine While three were proxy __ voters and there were com- plaints. Only one Lok Sab- ha constituency of Surat Gujarat was uncontested. The total number of polling stations was 10,51,016 and the average number of electors per polling station was 930. There was re-polling in 40 polling stations. While the number of nominations filed in the Lok Sabha polls stood at 12,459, only 8,360 quali- fied to contest after rejec- tion of nominations and withdrawals. Of those who contested, 7190 candi- dates 86 lost their depo- sits as they failed to garner more than one-sixth of the votes polled. There were 3,921 Inde- pendent candidates of Lok Sabha election, show EC data whom only seven managed to win. None of the 279 wo men Independent candi dates won. As compared to 726 in 2019, the number of wo men candidates increased to 800 in 2024, while the number of women voters rose to 47.63 crore in 2024 from 43.85 crore in 2019. The female voter turnout increased from 65.55 to 65.78. The six national parties, including the BJP, Congress and CPIM, bagged over 63 share of the total valid votes. Also, 47 recognised State parties and 690 regis tered, unrecognised politi cal parties contested the Parliamentarv polls.

55. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-27 174935.png
   Extracted Text: Rising Ocean Swells Are Smashing Californias Signature Piers By AMY QIN and KATE SELIG The towering waves that have hammered Californias coast this week have been unusually de- structive, killing at least one per- son and prompting warnings by officials to the public to stay away from the states beaches. The tumultuous surf also ripped apart a historic wharf in Santa Cruz, prompting new questions about the future of the states be- loved piers, as the sea grows ever more fierce amid climate change. Every year, state and local offi- cials  often with community sup- port  pour millions of dollars into preserving the spindly wood- enstructures that have been a de- fining feature of Californias coast- line dating back to the Gold Rush. In San Luis Obispo County, part of the Cayucos Pier has been roped off since it was damaged in aferocious storm earlier this year. The partial closure came less than a decade after the pier underwent 3.5 million renovation that was supposed to sustain the structure for several decades. In San Diego, the Ocean Beach pier, a nearly 2,000-foot concrete structure built in 1966, has been closed indefinitely, as city officials explore replacing it after having spent more than 1.7 million on re- pairs following storms over the past five years. Andin Santa Cruz County, three wooden piers have been damaged or destroyed in storms and haz- ardous ocean swells since last A building riding the ocean surf after a wharf partially collapsed Monday in Santa Cruz, Calif. year. Earlier damage to the Santa Cruz Wharf, which was built in 1914 and is now the longest pier on the West Coast, led city officials to begin a 4 million restoration project this year. A team of workers was inspect- ing the section of the wharf that was under renovation and closed to the public on Monday when powerful waves began to thrash the states coastline. Three of the workers  two engineers and a project manager  were launched into the water. They were rescued and reported no injuries, accord- ing to officials. The entire wharf will remain closed until further notice and next steps are uncer- tain, city officials said on Tuesday. In a world of climate change, do you simply say, That was that, and were going to put everything back and see how it goes? Fred Keeley, the mayor of Santa Cruz, said. Im not as sanguine about that. About 15 miles down the coast Continued on Page A12 New York Law Makes Polluters Pay on Climate By HILARY HOWARD Gov. Kathy Hochul of New York on Thursday signed a law that re- quires companies that are big fos- sil fuel polluters to help pay to re- pair damage caused by extreme weather, which is becoming more common because of greenhouse gas emissions. The legislation, called the Cli- mate Change Superfund Act, mandates that the companies re- sponsible for the bulk of carbon emissions buildup between 2000 and 2024 pay about 3 billion each year for 25 years. With nearly every record rain- fall, heat wave, and coastal storm, New Yorkers are increasingly burdened with billions of dollars in health, safety, and environmen- tal consequences due to polluters that have historically harmed our environment Governor Hochul said. The law was modeled on the original Superfund law, which was established in 1980 and requires companies to pay for the cleanup of toxic waste wrought by inci- dents like oil and chemical spills. New Yorks new law focuses on pollution produced by the com- bustion of fossil fuels, which re- sults in the warming of the atmos- phere, causing extreme weather, like floods and storms, to be more Continued on Page Al2

56. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-27 175821.png
   Extracted Text: Donald Trump threatens BRICS with 100 tariffs US President-elect wams against trying to undercut the dollar YESH SELL piewoets 1S President-elect Donald Trumpan Sunday deatenad to Impose a 100 tariff on the EBRIGS bloe nations, which i elude Inia. they ty to under mine the US dane The Mea that the BRICS countries are trying to move away from the Dollar while we stand by and Watch isover Werequze aco Inltment. atthey wilneltr create ew BRICS Currency, hor back any other Currency to pce the mighty USDollarar they wil face 0 percent Pars land should expeet to sa good bye to selling tothe wonder US BeonowsTrump wroteon ha Truth Social website, Trump said there is no ance BRICS wil replace the US dollar in global trade and thathappen should wave goo. byeto America The statement comes in the backdrop of the BBRICS summit held in Ortober Inthe Russian ety of Kazandie cessing ways to boost nan do lar transactions and local circles, India isnot in favour of common BRICS currency Ex ternal affairs Minister S Js hantar has more than once cla Med that there is no plan oo fora common BRICS carrency. 1 October, whileanswering a qucstlon onde datiartcation at stvevent hosted by Washington sed think tank Carnes En ovement, Jlshanka sa naa Has no poltey to args the do Tag ada hat it oly 1ooks at dealing with ate partners who donot have acest dalla inthat context Trumps nes sage is con as mally targeted at usiaand China Oona Toms Unrealistic threat! Trump tveat is unease, think tanke Global Tage Reseoen intone sid 7 Sunday sal tans of esele woudhem the US ansumersony a itwould Duh pees pars ssn global wage andrsk fetalton fom hey pares Thetopiehad come up during orecent summitot the BRICS, Where Russian President Vindinir Putin aceused the OS or woaponising the dllar farget rivals Is noe us who fefluse to ue the dollar Putin had aid at the time, But they dont les wore what ea we do? Weare forced to earch Toraternatives Russa tspushingfor the crea don of a new payment system that would efter an alternative to the global bank messaging Detwor, SWIET and allwhos fa to dae Western sinetons ta trad with partners. BRICS isan intergovernmen. tal organisation comprising tne countries Braz uss India, China, South Africa, Eeyot, Ethiopia, fran nd the United Arab Emirates Obth ints rom agencies Trump picks Kash Patel as new FBI chief US President-elect Donald Trumpon Sunny tapped lc sanAmerian Kanap Kash Pa el to ead the Paderal Bu eauof Inestlgation BD. if confirmed. Patel would re place Christopher Wray who fvas chosen by Trump in his fst term as resident in 27 Fil directors sre appointed oyear terms wo insuhae the bu est from pits, Alleree Trump byalist anda voeal ert deep state Patel Respected acuta the Fis fHagprint iva recent interview. whe. sald he Would close down the Bis head Washington and reagen it the next day of the doop state He said he Send the 7p0bodd employees Working in that bullingacros, Amerie to chase riminals, Patel served in several posts during Prumps tet term in ling as Chet af Stall toSec etary of Defense A son of Ian immigrants, Patelhas commented on the de velopments in India, Earlier hisgenr head wold support forthe Ayodhya Ram Teme He has also alleged there is 2 disinformation campaign Washington targeting Prime Minister Naren Mod

57. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-27 175845.png
   Extracted Text: Nine killed as Fengal drowns Pondy, Vpuram The ational OsaserRespee Fane engaged neue opetatons wing an erthmcver a Puduchery on Senda  mua EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE Oem SLOWMOVING eyeloniestorm engal has bought unprece. dented rainfall to Vilupuram fad Puducherry. where itmade landfall shortly belore Satur day midalght Torrential ralns lashed Villupuram. Puduch ery and surrounding areas from Saturday night resulting Ing cm of rainll. the ish st in ts history. and the auto. Mailam registering Stem, the highest ever recorded In Vt pura dstit, According tof sources, at east four people dit n rat Felated ineldents in Puduch ferry eee in Tiwannamalai find one each In Vellore and Chennai districts, Schools in Valor, Ranipet, Tirupattir Dharmapir! and Salem and both schoo and cl Jeges in Tiruvannamalal, Cud- TNto ask contre to send teams toassess damage henna Chet Mister MK Stalion Sunday sad hat he State govrrenent wil request the conte senda eam assess the domage cused by elon Fergal in TA.DYCM Gihayan stalin and ve munsters have been deauted Tocoordhatereetefetsi vllipram ard Cusdsion Pe dalore, Vilupuram, Puduek ferry and Keishnagir, will Frain closed on Mandy de tothe rains The Fecard breaking rant resulted in residential areas and arterial roads in Puduch ery being completely flooded nd the Uppanar canal over Wwhelmed, Parts of Villuparam istrict were aso heavily fn Undated, however, no deaths Felated to the rain have been Man steps on tive wire, latled in Ambattur Gherna A27-ear-oldman Sed a croton n Seaton Saturday ight. Accor topatee, ines of Ktpa, wasn hs way back home trom work when be ctintlly stepped a Snapped electiecable He was rushed toa hospital bt was Selareadeason sna reported there officials said, On Saturday. between 830 smn and730 pm, Puducherry. Fecelved sem of rainfall white Maslam in Vutupurans liste, recelved 1 em, By hight the showers bevan tol fensify and by Sunday morn. Ing  2 hours ending at 8.90 fm  Mallam bad recorded a Staggering stem of Fatntall followed by the union territory with em. 68s 7 trapped in Annamalaiyar Hill landslide AUALAKSHM!SAMPATH Cmmurar AT east seven persons, includ ing five ehildren, are feared Papped insides house beneath landslide near the lower Slopes of the Annamalalyar HilinTiruvannamalal district Sunsay The landslide, which curred around 420 pm, was iggored by incessant rain brought by eyclone Penal Res uo operations were halted by Sunday ght due to raln and Dassibllity of more landdlites. Te National Disaster Response Force has been asked 0 take ver fons Monday morning According to offeals, the trapped persons have been Mentified as Rajkumar his the Mena tert dae den. ms

58. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-27 180304.png
   Extracted Text: CCI launches probe against Google expness news sence THE Competition Cammision of India CC on Thursday launched an investigation into Google after online gaming firm Winzo aecused the US tech glant of antteompetitive practices tn the order the Fo Ulstor asked its direetorgener- alto wrap up the probe and submit aeportinb days Winzo, an online gaming platform, has alleged that Googles policies for hosting appson the Play Stare are un Tale Ttsays Gootles Developer  Distribution Agreement and Developer Program Policies are onesided, adding that Google restricts hosting of gaming applications that omer Real Money Games RMP in India. Asa result, customers are fored todo the Win Zo appivom ts website Additionally, when users ownload the app on Android Sevices, misleading warnings fre displayed, which WinZo ans tarnish ts reputation, The OCT has taken note of these allegations and ordered fan investigation into Googie bsiness practices, citing eon corns over discriminatory con duet The regulator noted that fexehisen frm the Pay torts ntamount to denial marke ss, As for the disclaimer pots up while dowmload Ing the app, the CCT said the warning 1s peculiar to the Goosle-operated Android OS and is completely Mega

59. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-27 180319.png
   Extracted Text: College girl confined and raped for 2 days, 1 held ANTONY FERNANDO oyna 1a suspected gang rape of 17 yearold college girl, one per on was arrested under Pocso Act and remanded in Judicial ftstody on Thursday and at Bast five more, including aj we are under investigation In Magitaduthueal The gtr wasallegedly Megally detained fbr two days ata secluded spot snd sexually assaulted by the secused We ae waiting forthe inal medical report ad investiga ton still under way. Mays laduthural SP G Stalin told NIE. K Rekha, District Child Pro, tection Officer in-charge of Mayiladuthural, said, The victim told our cues tha she was sexually assaulted by multiple people over das But we are walling or the initial pliceprobe tobe camped, According to sources. the tim, who fom Tewari istrict was doing her firs ear BCom na college n May aduhurai. A Abinath, 0 2- year-old. resident of Mayaduthurat, established contact with her through Into tram and befriended hee Abinath met the el at Tiruvarur Bus Stand on Monday afternoon, and Te She was allegedly kept un der legal confinement and Was dropped near the May Induthurat bus stand by the perpetrators in a car on Wiadnesday Meanwhile. the gts parents led a missing complaint tn Tyruvaruron fuewlay and it Mayiladuthural on Wednesday alter they were unableto reach fee The victim was rescucdon, Wednesday, and a Poeso case Was registered at the May Induthural AU Women Police Station on Thurs Police lt Srarrested Abinath and pro Aluced him beforea magistrate fa remand in ea sty.

60. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-29 174136.png
   Extracted Text: Mexican Cartels Fatal Fentanyl Experiments   the synthetic opioid have made i pynarauiexrrnoer Hens and Humans Are bat der tor these erminal groups ind PAULINA VILEEGAS to find the chemical compounds CULIACAN Mente vivcar. Used to Test Drugs they need to produce the drug col eh Meee Thee The original source, China, has re oreo came fe nome Siricted exports ofthe necessary ages filed wth thc est exc snapping photos and fing his FW ingredients, pushing the car angl formula. The offer was sim. eacton He survived, but he said 8 come up with new and ex Pleaccordingtotwomenlivingst he saw many others who didnot. tTemely risky ways to maintain hecampinnorthwest Mexcosup When its realy. strong, ic fbanyl production and potency. foso0for anyone wing teinjac knocks you out orks you sald Theexperimentation, members themselves wih the concoction, ME Lopes Camacho ofthe drugs ofthe cartels say, invaives con One of the men, Pedro Lopez he and others were given. The biningthe drug witha widerrange cho, said he volunteered e- people here died of additives  including animal peatedly  at times the opera. This show fa Mexican cartels sedatives and ther dangerous Exes were visting everyday. will go to dominate the fentanyl anesthetin, To test their ess They watched the drug kee business the criminals who make the fe fect ie Lopes Camacho said, Globaletiortstocrackdownon Continued on Page Pedro Lipez Camacho said helt cartel operatives inject him with therfentanylformulas.

61. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-29 174208.png
   Extracted Text: ISRAELI AGENCIES BURROWED DEEP INTO HEZBOLLAH TRAN PROXY DECIMATED ByuROKOTARUCHI  Years of Intelligence Led tnechemcagent-mode sar  to Pager Blasts and Pristine viru oestcense  Nasrallah Killing Shi any her produce were  _ TR rice by Mark Mace, ting up inthe aston semage  Shere Freel! ond omen Toe rescrchers were cn  Beeman cere, The data suggested that  TEL AVIV  Right up unl be thetanc cheat ade by 3,  wavascounned aan Nata eet icing sue  ao ble a aed he ernment woulda cichhadabeadyintedenp,  Ahehuneredinsie atest Seto bith defect, cancer an  inure 0 est ioe. nsept rh aesurged no Tat sewage was ing sedan  go oss cane Naa

62. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-29 174627.png
   Extracted Text: Clear skies bring colder nights in T Times News NeTWoRK Hyderabad The inflow of fo- reign direct investment to Te- langana has increased signifi- cantly this year, with the state receiving 12,864 crore in the six months between April and Sept. The state got 9,67! for the corresponding period last year. Investments were 33,185 crore more than last ye- ar. A growth of almost 33 in FDI was recorded, according tothe CMO. As per the details released by the Union industries mini- stry and internal trade, Te- langana ranks sixth in the co- untry when considering in- vestments for the specified six-month period. Maharash tra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Del- hi, and Tamil Nadu are in the top five. Almost 93 of the to- tal FDI received in thestateca- me from Hyderabad. The state capital received 211,970 crore, Rangareddy received 680.5 crore, Mahabubnagar got 116.7 crore, and Medak recei ved96.99crore, said the CMO. Children gather around a Suman Reddy D nfire to warm themselves on a cold winter night at Ranigunj in Secunderabad on Saturday Amisha.Rajani timesofindia.com Hyderabad Aftera week of gloomy weather and rain- fall, Telangana is experien- cing a dip in minimum tem. peratures as clouds move to- wards northern parts of In- dia. According to the India Meteorological Department IMD, Saturdays district- wise data shows Kohir in Sangareddy recorded the lo- west temperature at 13.1 Celsius. Several districts, inclu- ding Rangareddy and Med ak, recorded minimum tem peratures between 13.5C and 143C. Hyderabad, at C, was slightly warmer butstill cooler than usual. The temperature drop is attributed to the clearing of clouds, allowing colder nort hern winds to impact the re- gion. While nights are ex- pected to remain cold, dayti- me temperatures are predic tedtoriseabove27C,saida senior IMD official.

63. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-29 174828.png
   Extracted Text: Mero Shyam kantha Centre puts tungsten mining in TN on hold EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE Chennai THE Ministry of Mines on Tuesday requested the Tamil Nadu govern- ment to keep the process of issuing the Letter of Intent Lol to the pre- ferred bidder, Hindustan Zinc Lim- ited, for mining of tungsten in Nay- akkarpatti Tungsten Block in Madurai on hold. It has cited objections relating to auctioning of the block over the existence of biodiversity her- itage site within block area. The Geological Survey of India GSI has been asked to explore the possibility of redefining the block bounda- ry by excluding the biodiversity site, a press statement issued by the ministry on Tuesday said. TNIE was the first to report about the plan to mine molybde- num and tungsten in Tamil Nadu. The ministrys announcement has come two weeks after Tamil Nadu Assembly on December 9 unanimously adopted a resolution urging the centre to immediately cancel the tungsten mining rights given to Hindustan Zinc Limited and not to grant any mininglicence in the future without the permis- sion of the state government. Speaking in the Assembly, Chief Minister MK Stalin had declared that as long as he is the CM, the state government will never allow tungsten mining in Madurai dis- trict. The chief minister had also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to cancel the award of tungsten mining rights. The mines ministry had earlier said that inputs were taken from the Tamil Nadu government before the auc- tion of the tungsten block and no communication from any quarter, including from the state, regarding any opposition to the tender was received. The statement by the mines min- istry on Tuesday also said that sec- retary of the ministry, in a letter dated December 6, 3, sent to Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu re- quested details of three critical mineral blocks to be put up for auc- tion including Nayakkarpatti. P7 Shyam Benegal 1934-2024 T TO  r MANUSPEAK LAPSE YES BUT MOTIVATED Olympics double medallist Manu Bhaker said there has been a lapse from her side while filing nominations for awards but says she is motivated to win medals  PIs

64. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-29 174957.png
   Extracted Text: Memorial space tobe allocated after todays cremation Govt Funeral at 11.45 am at Delhis Nigambodh Ghat crematorium, says home ministry ZK ime Wrst Naeta Me pass st eo femme minster Mannakan ng new Oi on Fay Ster Manmohan Singhs nal ites with ful state honours, the Congress om Friday re quested the Union government fora resting pincofeehimalong the banks of the Yantuna tn Delhi where many former PMS Rave ter memorals TheCentretold the Congress brags to cont the funeral at the Nigambodh Ghat eremto umon Saturday as sed while it will consider the re Quest fora memorial te. Lat er the Union home ministry Ssid the government wil allo fate space fora memorial, add ing ithas been communicated tohis family and Congress President Malliarjun Kharge Thi eter to Prime Afins id Apropos our telephonic conversation today morning, wherein Tmade a reauest 16 held Dr Singhs astrites which ll take place tomorrow at his beasscrosanet venuefora ine orial ofthe great son of In dig, This fs in keeping with Such tradition of having me mortals of statesmen and very place of thelr funerals. commutation from the Ministry of Home Affaire in the evening said Singhs iat Fite il be conducted a 1185 fm en Saturday a the Nizam togh Ghat crematorium with ate honours. After a Cabinet Inceting Union home minister Amit Shad communicated 0 Q eetisimret on curator se The natan as loetanemnert Kharge and Singh fail that the government wouldalloete ieanwhie cremation and ot tr formalities can happen be fandspace has tobe alocatedto Hethe hone ministeysald Signtcanly twas the UPA government headed by Singh thot det In 201 tha there would be mo separate memort tsfor VViPe in Delhi and de Elded  have a common com plex brmemorialsof departed ational leaders like Presi dente, Vice Presidents and Prime sinister nthe condolence solution passed tits meeting the Co ress Working. Committ CWC pai eibtes to inh, Soyingie wasa towering gure Inna potlteal and econo Xe landseape whose contrib Sons taf me the country and earned him respect DATANIXIALTIAN CINCLU RETIEVED  AMON FIRST TOPAY HOMAGE. Nessa east ev omage taesnan  _ Loss, SaVS, SONIA Termin is eth rea

65. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-29 175036.png
   Extracted Text:  MANMOHAN SINGH BELIEVED IN GROWTH WITH EQUITY Member of Rajya Sabha RManmohan Singh belongs to an era when politicians were respected for allowing institu- tions to flourish. It is not as if there were no aberrations in the past. By and large, the spirit of the Constitution was hon- oured by those in power. Even when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister 1999- 2004, he respected and heard the voice of the opposition. Narasimha Rao, on one occa- sion, requested Vajpayee, who was the Leader of Opposition at the time, to lead a delega- tion to the UN. It was during those years that Manmohan Singh, from being a bureau- crat, who served the nation in several capacities, became the Prime Minister in 2004. The opening up of the In- dian economy, when a radical shift was made in 1991, by Singh as Finance Minister with Indias balance of pay- ments in deep crisis. His eco- nomic liberalisation policy paved the way for what India is today. Every sector of the economy moved away from the license quota raj and from a 3.3 growth rate prior to 1991, we in the 1990s witness- ing Indias GDP growing at 6. Between 2004 and 2014, GDP growth averaged 7.7 with 8.1 average growth be- tween 2004 and 2009. Those were golden years, when Indias growth story was lauded internationally and 271 million people moved above the poverty line. Eco- nomic growth during these years was tempered with eq- uity. Singh believed that growth without equity, is not the path India should tread. His commitment to Parlia- ment and Parliamentary in- stitutions was unmatched. He sat through the debates, lis- tening to the opposition and attempted, to the extent pos- sible, to move forward with consensus. He did not have the luxury of a brute majority in the Lok Sabha and there- fore, had to navigate his poli- cies through dialogue both with his coalition partners and the opposition. The dia- logues, with his coalition part- ners, allowed him to make some monumental decisions. The Right to Information Act, 2005, brought about enor- mous transparency in the process of decision making. With information available to citizens, government could be held accountable, making transparency a policy pre- scription. The Right to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, allowed 25 of chil- dren belonging to the poor and marginalised communi- ties to be admitted to private schools where theireducation wassubsidised from Class I to Class VIII. These changes in many senses recognised that unless people at the bottom of the pyramid have opportuni- ties, India will continue to be an iniquitous society CONTINUED ONPTI ee, ALS at930am US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Singh was one of the greatest champions of US-India strategic partnership who brought the two countries closer ASTATESMAN UKENO OTHER PUTIN Russian President Madimir Putin described former prime minister Manmohan Singh asan outstanding statesman who elevated India- Russia ties to greater heights

66. Image: Screenshot 2024-12-29 175202.png
   Extracted Text: Film personalities queued up to express solidarity with Allu Arjun. What did he lose? Did he lose his eyes, legs or hands or suffered any kidney ailment? A Rev a ch iter Get wera ea ey peu he deny cotelastdyaf hesesion  CM Ye kaisa insan hain Alu Arjun? CHIEF Minister A Revanth Reddy once again took Tol Wood actor Alla Arum to task Torthe stampede dhat occurred at Sandhya Theatre Duringthe premiere of Pushpa 2a wom Eilon ber lf, ber yea, ol son stored as physiaton. eas where AIMIM Legislative Pa Uy leader Akbaruddin Owaisi Faised concerns about the fn Hars insensitive remarks About his movie being a hit the stampede ddin Owaisi also asked whether the actor con ducted a road show after the Stampede Responting othe query Revanth Rea ocnbatling?orlfe PRIVILEGES IF dy wondered what Im hospital DEATHHAPPENS ype of human Alu tae CM said that Adjun as, refer het te  atu arjunacted it ing to the latters Rrumancyevenaner AREanth Reddy F304 Show ere a Redeuhatamons Sedat hence an. He also ex emer woud be situation at the reseed nha space there hess with film  pfivieges tof Allu Arjun didnt Dersonalities ex tendingsoldarty to Alu Arjun rather than supporting the child un Sergping treatment Film personalties queued up toexprese solidarity with Anu Arjun What did he lose? Aliment? he questioned This response came during short discussion on Rtht, Baroni the state Assomly, involdrgtas of ie ister when an ACP asked him to leave the theatre, Zab anda setamars DCP oro law andorder sition dekh Karbaahar leke aaye, Banhar fnadi mein baithne ke baad, Jatewagtphurrooftop nikal kar Dhir logon ko wave kar raha, Bhat hey alsa nah? Hum log kya bolna Our DCP. noticing the aw and orders dation had to step In and force the hero to come outside, Even Its attempt to assassinate my character Allu Arjun CHTWALUI REVANT gents ASSERTING that the stampede at Sndiya Theatre on De ember 4was purelyan aceident, actor Alla Arjun on Satur day sad that here was no fauiten partof anyane, Responding to Chlet Miniter Revanth Reddys comments nthe state Legislative Assembly eater inthe day over the Stampede, the Pushpa Zactor tld eporters tn the evening that there wae alot of misinformation to assassinate his character Claiming that be earned a ood reputation, Alu Arjun sid that false allegations wore 1v led against him over is beha AF iouratthe teatre. Hevecaled tat LY we visited the injured tans of CChisanjeevLandothersin Viavawa- ds and other place. CONTINUED ONPS after he was brought out from thatthe erew of Pushpa2. in the theatre, he waved at the eluding Ally Arjun visited the people fom his vehicle by theatre despite police necting pening theroofep Man. what permission on December 3 n Kind of person the? What can esponset arenes, wesy?And.Jeansitquiely The CM also said that All im the CMs chair Re Arjinbeaved rade with the remarked pote efeals when they went He informed the Assembly 0 arrst him. COWTMUEDONPA

67. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 200817.png
   Extracted Text: Tauaune News Senvice Pharmingen Dell ed oan unpresedent cd surge in power demand, with December recording 8 pk ofS 213 MW thehigh st-ver for the month Ber he fit ine in Des hist the pak paver eran in Deere has au pase MW rate Die emoficals suid on Tesi. The State Load Disteh Cente SLD rept that power deme it 213 MW 11030 AM on Toes. after aching S046 MW on Mon- dy The marks significant ate compared to December oaks of 4.894 MAW in 2028 nd 4.9640 m2, Adiscom official sid This isanextracrdinarymiledne a Delhis power consump on continues to. trele records. The ring winter demand iors the record renling.aummer pele of pe MW this year Olficials anticipate that the peak power demand 5.300 setting yet anct fer record for the capitals power consumption, Congress candidate Sandeep Dit addresses themed in New Deon Tada. aon Willfile defamation suits against Atishi, AAP MP Cong Dikshit Tramune News Semvice Congest lender Sandeep Dikshit on Tuesday defamation suits aguinst Delhi Chief Minister Ashi and AAP Rajya Subba MP Sanjay Singh allowing their allegations that he took money fom the BJP Addressing a press canter ence here, Dikshit stongly ejected the accusations and. fceused the AAP of target ing him snd is fm or cover adecnde, Five to six days ago, Dei Ca Atshisaidthat lam tale ina hugeamount of money from the BUP For the past 1012 years they have tar seted the Congres, me and my fail Dik sai have several questions for AAP tht go bade over the pst 10-12 years he ald The former East Dei MP, who is contesting against, APS Avie Kejenvalin the Neve Deb constituency also refered to an alleged meet Ingbetween BUPleaders and Kejiwal showy aRer he TBIPs Vijay Kumar Mat nk told me about a meet ingwhete the BIP delegation asked Kejrval for evidence agaist the Shela Dikshit fvemment Kiva CONTINUED ON PACE 3

68. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 200832.png
   Extracted Text: Delhi Police bust drug cartel, arrest four with 30-kg psychotropic tablets Nab drugtrafficker, two Nigerian nationals with heroin in separate cases antaw Hogue he Delhi Paice claimed to avebusedadrug carte and ced paycttopie drugs th the arrest of four per ons. They also arrested an ntrstate drug and wo Nigerian national for anni ararco-ayedicate in eparatecass polceafials nidon Tua The AntiNercotics Tak bree ANTE af the Coie janch dismandled hug arte operating ros Delt nd. NCR supplying. pay hotrope substance ape ola ables, The police recovered 0k equivalent 2 lakh ils of Jprazolam tablets worth proximately Re 1 crores he international marke, Mey also seized three voters being fr trans partation of drugs. ting en ipl regard tng crag shipment ear Sonia Vihar the ANT are. ct Laxman G2 and Parka 08 on November 28 They recovered 27 gs of alprazo- Em abietstrom thesrposes son the police sid, sed on the disclose, the Crime Branch railed down. Apoorva. Gupta, DDCP Crime Branch ANTE ssidArad wasconductedat 2 godow in Lani, Utar Pradesh leading others cy of additional 24 ke of Spazdam tables. The sgadown repartedly belonged toni Shak ater rid acroes Delhi NCR and Utar Pradesh, Ant Shukla 23 was appre fendedonDecember 6 fram Goria, UP the DCP said, Acting on a tip-off, the police amested. Tanisha, 22 from near the Karkar fdooma, Metro station on December 28. The police said Shukla and Tush. a resident of Kara al Naga, Delhi used to work delivery agents or supply of generic medicines. Tan Bbq tld Sulla about the supply falprazdam bets Lat, the din started ds tebating peyehotropie sub- stances aerass Delhi and NCR the DCP added. Tn another case, the ANTE Come Branch, under the supervision of BCP Apoorva. Gupta. apprehended an intr state drug. walker and ever 170 grams of hemo in trom im, Acting on a ip ff regard ing two individuals, Sonu se Sap, resident of Uttar Pradesh, volved inthe sup ply of herein and opium in ahangispus area, Dell the team raided a. house November 18. When the fan the house lade, the contacted he anon, Wi thebalpof the landlow the managed to nab Spl 25 Duan checking 170 gran ofheren wn rece f the house the DCP sid. During investigation Seplis admitled toh involvement in seling hei with his accomplice San Tesiden of Binge Bada, UB in areas ich a Bua aa Reragat in Del official nd The alee sid Sop revealed Unt Son pci bsoin tram bis sacs Barely UBand theater wa atlrakoinvbedinering etites including to 2m fctecassandene NDPSce, Meare the pobcearres ed two Nigerian rationals an

69. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 200938.png
   Extracted Text: gear up for New Years Eve 82K applications received Deploy quick reaction teams, PCR vans to ensure peaceful celebrations . - Damuxe News Senvice As the ety gears up to we comethe New Yea the Dei Felice have implemented security arrangements across the ly ensure sly smth celebrations and effective crowd management, ofa sidon Monday. DCP South Ankit Chauhan said additional ptrling and specialised unis had been deployed sever key areas to maintain aw andonder Security checkpoints wth breath analyzers have been se upat21 strate beatons to rege vehicular move ment and prevent any inch dents related to dune dri ing. Quick reaction teams QR are stationed across 15 erica points, while 30 PCR vans have been tates cay placed to ensure rapid mobibty anal expanse 10 creer he sh Toturther tighten vance, 70 rung. pickets fried ith barricades and breath sralyaersare mentoring fe andidentiying suspicious movements Celeron ven uc, induing 31 key bea ans, ae under enhanced security coverage, while malls, motels, cinema halls and other popular gatering spots arebeing steely mom toed. Secunty. hat also been reinforced at bs ops endenitical ood rote ith personnel deployed on 40 motoreyetes toenaure quick response times. Addition eight prominent hotels here are under heightened survellance, headed DCP Chaban sid the deployment comprsesseven Avsisant Commissioners of oie 40 inspectors, 28 sub inspectors andassstant sub- Ingpetos, alg with 180 female personnel Tn the neighbering Sputh et District DCP Surendra Choudhary outlined a simi bly exmpeebensive plan to handle the int of exrwda He said 27 trafic checking prints with bornndes and breath analyzers ad been et up, while 1 quick resetion Acer had. been deployed scrosssensite sas SeceenPCRvans reste geal positonad for quick sponse and stung picts wih tame areremoring tfc and dentin potential eka he DOP Specal tention as ber bond eyeeetration ve ies and 15 crowded pubic Spaces such as mals, mes andoinema halls Pubic St pons, nchding 21 bus Sops, we being manned by alequtepersrnelto prevent nova incident, Vutnre ee reutesare being patra ty aiff on 60 matory, rou consistent mona ing. and. quick iservetion when necessary. Bight promt ent holes are also Under Iighened secur, whe Haz Khas Vilage, a mae party hub, has tren scape high visaty deployment to naire smcoth and eae ole ratong headed Ta the South West district, sven Assistant Comms Sonere of Police, 38 inepee- ters, 29 subvinspectrs and sistant subinspecters ad 11 female personnel have been deplved a New Debi distict -gingenentsunebendeat Co into two zs dr the ipavisn of sar offer. Zine ever asl Pas. ment Stet and Connaught Pace wale Zane 2 inches Guraiga Pus, Banana oadand ugha, Atal of 68 police person- 1d, 100 Home Guard vans snd 1 companies of the CADP had been deployed, ssid DCP New Deli evesh Kismat Mla, Ambulance, fie tenders jal ans, bomb disposal Squads and SWAT team ako be on stariy. Tai management wil play au ial role, with buses heading towards Connaught Pace being diverted fom 7 PM cnvards. The ext gates of Faiy Chose Metro Station wil be closed ater 9 PA to Preventovererowding Strict heck willbe conducted for lations of exee lave nd public intoxication, with fredical tama and excise Inspectors deployed to man tor and enforce regu tons,he sid for voter deletion, says CEO Got over 4.81 forms for new voter registrationssince Nov 29 Twine News Sexvice Amid a political tussle tetween the AAP and the UP over alleges voter dele- tin fram the eeetoral rolls stead of the Assembly cle tionsher the Chief Bectoral Office, Delhi on Monday sid recived 82 .50appicatons for deletions and 485.24 fr ow regitstions til date The Hecion Comamission s conducting the special summary revision of eee turalrals with the qualiving date set January 12005, Asmany 485 A24appica- tions for new registations im 6 2450 applications for delions Barn 7 ard 171.385 appeations for mod Seaione Rem 8 see reecied between Nowe 22 aa the present date the CHODahi sta statement Residents in Deli who vente registered asvot es can fil apply for enn ment using Form 6, which Fequites submission of sup. porting decuments fr ver fation by the respective booth level fice, Form 8 8d Form 7 can be fle for modifation or deletion in the electoral sal During the preeevision Pere hose to house ver Eatin sas carried ott from August 20 to October 18 by toate oieers This cxerie aimed atidentiing lunegitered eligible prospective voters turning 18 by Oetober 1, 2025 aswell as ppemmanently shifted Alecease electors and dup ate enti the statement futher sk The daft electra rll was published on Octeer 25, fe. Towing which the commis Son invited the pul to He flaims and objeions. Al flaims and bjetions received il November 22 wate disposed of by Dosw bet 24 Theil electoral al is scheduled for pubiiation ondanuary 205, ment snd. Recenly, FIRS wore fled against ght individuals fr Submitting fale documents for voter registration inthe Old Assembly constituen eyinDeb The CBO, Delhi said meet. ings with representatives of pobtcal partes were held on September 4, Ocaber 9 and 20 and December 10 and 2 Dring the meetings, pol ca partes were requested to tat the electoral author. es in increasing the eel mentofynungeletorsin the age group of 1619. In ease, poltial parties ae having Sy objections to any add ondleletionsimodiiations omed atin the electoral 1 during the special sum- mary revbion peti and drng the continu up tion. they ean fle their obec onsale the oil con cerned iteontinued, 6held for forging voter ID cards Tmuxs News Sexvice The Del Paice have ares ts ste persons involved in forging voter TD cards using counteriait documents in the Shaheen Bayh ates ical saidon Mond The arrests ere made ft lowing two Separate cases registered at the Shaheen Bagh pace station Accord Ing othe pice, the aeased Used forged Aadhaar cas and electricity bills to create lrmdity voter D cards The investigation began on December 25 when Electoral Registration Officer ERO Vinod Kumar of Assembly Constiuency-S! Okla lege a complaint aleging that four applications fr vt eIDregitrain and address change hal bee subeited using forged documents A Similar complaint was fled an December 28, 2024, Iythesamecfees reporting another fr appease new voter egstrtion based

70. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 201001.png
   Extracted Text: Graphic designer engineeramong 203 fake visa agents arrested this year Cops Sawn Hogue Agape desiguer a an flereal engecr were rested by the Debi ice far this yer frrunning  Ibetry ir reducing annter cards and holograms. They were among the 208 agents Sppreiendedin 9024 upto fal iden oa In Sepember, a passenger spproathed for immigration eure intending to travel to eme ona Swedish Ope visa. However upon the Seuliny ofthe documents, it tous found that the visa was ake without any specific WV features, Intent image and Intago mark. The pice said during the sntemogation, the acrused passenger disdloced that he od arranged the visa fom some boys in his lage. The police ter arested three gents in comnectionsth the ase. The apprehension fur ther led the police to a 65- SEWER oa z LOOKING BACK arena 32  z e a eae ts aa  YEAR-END SPECIAL  wearers 5 a ae iy   aaa   aaa a eee et a  ee  Sas   s zs ffomanatheragentJaswant Shigh whids led to Mane Moni. gaphiedesieneran exper in the design and Preparation of fake sticker The factory had the ability destinations sich a Canad, the United States the UAE and Buropean nations. Highs were recovered. These Bamps were used alter pasparts and ceate false rave sores, The maid led

71. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 201133.png
   Extracted Text: Devotees Swear by Raw Water Despite Risks nighway that winds alogg the Coast Marin County fers sone of Callers most magnificent Wists, wih the dee hue Pcie Deean tering through ves af fog But or hana of avers, the views aren te prize At oe blneand-you emis pullout is natural sping that Sats people rom acros the San Francisco Bay Area sume. of whan drive hours though rac to get here. Many a them reject Water rm any ater Source nd St only what hey sa 6d ott uses trom the copper Pipes of Red Rock sping, A Drink Untested, and Untreated, for Those Who Scorn Tap, Samantha Ree, who ealeeds0 lon in wate-colr age that She strapped int her scan wih Sabet on a recent arming Mg Relch, 77, among 3 shall suber of sp ater sc nr that are removed fr ap water during te purifation process Many ofthe springs dian ural spring with so-called liquid gold draws people from across the San Francisco Bay Ares, fae ate_part fe soca Sppeses government pue en iervenons, including eee mandates psteuracd Tks cated ater They Son ave 3 pane Douses many ofthe sine views Sing cponin ar ied Hak and Haman Ser tees Department Kennedy tas yet to say wheter he advo Cie rig wae heath experts, wh ay that Spring water devotes ae king Continued on Page A13

72. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 201211.png
   Extracted Text: US. Is Investigating Deadly Attack by Pickup Driver as Act of Terrorism Slammed nto the crowd It jst toate moment to Fete, was Jest so ghtelng  was the yt Sonn sad she, Was Moope inspecting acon siting Sou 10 fet fram i stop. Ae ardng to Me OBrien theaflcer ies ae nde and ward detnat the contents snout oe inte n wile ican wah is ears covered a he dtance. tm sili shock? when the pace exchanged Eun tre wih the suspect ater he had eed andenteahis tc Dah The Sugar Boi.partothenew Continued on Page A22

73. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 202518.png
   Extracted Text: TCHING UP ON URBAN ROUTE Mustration ZAHID Small Town Sales Join the Big League Contribution of Tier II-IV markets in consumption of discretionary products rising sharply Writankar Mukherjee  Sharmistha Mukherjee Kolkata  New Delhi The rest of India is rapidly bridging the equality gap with the countrys larger cities in discretionary pro- duct consumption, marked by a steadily rising share in the sales of smartphones, washing machi- nesand televisions in the past five years, according to the latest data from companies and market rese- archer NielsenIQ. The diminishing differential is stimulated by a shift in social structure in the smaller markets experiencing fast urbanisation, formationof nuclearfamiliesand deeper penetration of consumer lation, and smaller or Tier I-IV markets had equal contribution to smartphone sales in calendar 2019, the share of smaller towns rose to 53 in 2024 till October, ac- cording to NielsenIQ, which tracks actual sales. For laptops, the share of smaller Entry, mass segment goods in smaller towns than metros have a higher share of sales  smartphone towns grew to 35 of total sales as compared with 30 in 2019, washing machines to 51 from 47, and televisions to 48 from 46 , the data showed. For cars, smaller towns saw a faster increase in total sales cont- ribution. SEE Miotal B Tier  Tier WV in 0 el entry seement contributes around 45 of total unit a For instance, at market leader Maruti Suzuki, sales in rural markets climbed by ten percenta- ge points to 48 during the pe- riod under review. Similarly, Tata Motors said the share of rural markets improved by up to 7 per- centage points to47. Sharang Pant, commercial lea- der tech and durables at Nielse- nlQ India, said the growing share of smaller towns to overall sales is fuelled by growing availability of consumer goods, as wel as gro- wing urbanisation driving emer- gence of new households. Consumersalso say they are di- verting savings from their utility bills due to the growing footprint of solar panel installations to- wards purchase of consumer du- rables, he said.

74. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 202543.png
   Extracted Text: RECORD PRIMARY MKT INVESTMENTS IN 24 FPis Bow to IPO Allure, But Walk Out of Secondary Mkts ve invested in IPOs and qualified 14.5b foreign inflows foreign inflows into primary mkt last yr outstrip secondary exits trend to continue Ranjit Shinde ET Intelligence Group A boo- ming market for initial public of. ferings IPO continued to lure fo- reign portfolio investors FPIs in 2024 as they were net sellers of In- 10,000 5,000. 0. 5,000. -10,000-  million 100. January dian equities in the secondary market amid rich valuations, sluggish demand and slowing GDP growth. 3iven the sustained flow of com- panies filing draft red herring prospectus DRHPs with the markets regulator asa part of the IPO launch process, the domestic primary market is likely to re- maina major routeof equity investment for foreign investors in 2025as well In 2024, FPIs pumped 1.22 lakh crore 14.5 bil. lion into the primary market, the most they institutional placements QIPs according to NSDL data. This mo- re than offset their exit from the secondary market to the tune of 1.21lakh crore 14.37 billion, 1 sulting in a net inflow of 426.9 crore 124 million for the cale1 dar year. This compares with the net to. tal investment of 1.71 lakh cro. re 20.74 billion by FPIs in the previous year, the highest an nual investment in domestic equities till date. IPOs providean efficient rou- te for investment in new busi. Monthly net m domestic FPi  crore Domestic data December 20, FP data Ui December 31 source SEB. SD, -5,000 10,000 December January institutional. 1000-5 equity flow 5,000 a CF in2024 om y- Eh ia. nesses as they are often launched at attractive valuations compa red with listed peers. Inaddition, abulk investment in IPOs does not have any price im pact, unlike a purchase in the se ndary market The domestic primary market reportedastrongflow of newoffe rings in 2024. A record 90 compa- nies raised over 1.6 lakh crore through the IPO route during the year. That broke the earlier re cord of 63 companies raising ne- arly 1.2lakh crore in 20 Trend of Past Decade  12 Illustration ZAHID

75. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 202601.png
   Extracted Text: India Puts Many Surprise Eggs in Exports Basket Shipments of banana, ghee, furniture, office stationery and solar photovoltaic modules growing rapidly in new markets Kirtika Suneja New Delhi The humble banana along with ghee, furniture, office stationery and solar photovoltaic PV modules are spicing up In- dias exports basket as, despite a small base, their shipmentsare growing fast. While engineering goods, phar- maceuticals, gems and jeweller andelectronicsare the key drive of goods exports, these new sec- torsare giving the countrys over- seas sales that extra push. Banana is among the 20 agri products we have identified whose exports we want to boost as, at present, Indias share is low in their global exports, saidan official. Watermelons, ghee, guavas, green chilli, capsicum, okra, garlic, onionsand alcoholic be- verages are the other products on this listas India aims to increase its share in global exports to 4-5 inthenext few years from2.5 now. The US, Malaysia, Canada, Small Wonders nnn m we Oct FY25  FY24 Banana Uw Furniture Rice bY, 67. Source Conererce  mdusty Minty Russia, Germa! rance, South Korea, China, Indonesia, Japan, Italy Belgium and the UK have significant potential for such exports. Also making its presence felt isaniche beverage. The acceptance for Indian single malt whisky is growing in the EU, US and the far East, said Anant Iyer, director general, Confedera- tion of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Small-ticket items lift Indias exports Companies CIABC. The volu- mesaresmall but there is growth. Exports of alcoholic beverages rose 8 on-year in the April- October period, of which out- bound shipments of whisky rose 16. A growth inexportsisalso seen incertain spices suchas black pepper, said the official cited above. Office stationery items suchas registers and diaries are finding favour in Nicaragua, El Salvador and Cyprus. Similarly, India is now the sixth largest exporter of solar PV modu- les with the countrysshare in global exports of the product havingrisen to 2.51 in 2023 from 0.4 in 2013. New Products on the List  12

76. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 202625.png
   Extracted Text: TELCO LIKELY TO PRICE ENTRY PACKS LOWER THAN RIVALS Voda Idea Likely to Sound War Bugle with 5G March Plans to initially start service in 75 cities across 17 key circles, target industrial hubs Kalyan Parbat Kolkata Vodafone Idea Vi is expected to launch 5G mobile broadband service in March with aggressively priced plans, aiming to win back customers from Reliance Jio and Bharti Airtel, which already boast na- tionwide 5G networks. Viis likely to initially launch 5G in Indias top 75-odd cities across its17 priority circles and even tar- get industrial hubs thatare heav. data-guzzlingzones, multiple peo- pleaware of the matter said. Plans may be up to 15 cheaper atentry levelsata sharp disco- unt to current offerings by Jio and Airteland are seen trigge- ring a price war, leading telco broadband tariff trackers said. Weare gearing uptolaunch5G services and are committed to providing the best experience and price, a Vi spokesperson told ET. The company would be able to further enhance its 4G co- verage and introduce 5G in key t the earliest as it holds uufficient and competitive 5G spectrum in its 17 priority mar- ts, Over the next few months, Vi Iso play with distribution costs, a top sector analyst sai Need to Stem Customer Losses  12 Tariff Hikes, Data Play Lift Telcos AGR The telecom industry FE saw 6.75 sequential growth in AGRatz75,310 crore in the Sept quarter as tariff hikes and robust data usage out- weighed tepid user additions.  4 win back high- value 5G users from Jio, Airtel Analysts say 5G battle will be fought on pricing, but service quality will also matter Telco unlikely to go overboard as move could stifle ARPU growth distribution costs by paying more commission to dealers Likely to also hike Promotional spends a CL eee ao

77. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 202825.png
   Extracted Text: FIRST CABINET MEETING IN NEWYEAR Two crop insurance schemes to run till FY26 MoT erewbCS poy Additional subsidy of 3,850 cr pMrBYaRWwecs Marke tuatio ed 090 to 669,515 crore for DAP to maintain retail prices seeteieme Fertili enon Modi says decisions dedicated to dayertended to crop insurance Fasal Ba ojanPMPBY andthe Restructred Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme RWBCIS by one moreyeatil2025-26taalign Brot enhancing prosperity of farmers Penman peat A Soonibacmbersiaosiained  PRIMEMINISTERNARENDRA farmer ster and trothes who Mhepingrminainscailpicsot  ModisaltonWednestythatthe orto to edournaten The Guieyieumerarthssdabagor  govemnmentristdedionnthe Gstesbinetot 025 edetesed SOlgThkwdlpuhupthettiter  Nowtearsdedcaedtotarmen, tcshanclng poser for out givag their Implementation with the - subsdyty3.850crmmeintheesr  asthe Union Cabinet headed ty farmers amid thay dec 15th inane Commision period nutans Hmeshanced allocation lena have been taken ih this he otal outlay forPMFBY and Farmers wll continue to get_ to. crop insurance regard the Prime Minister RWBCIS has been Increased C0 arate ss0pers0cgbagandthe  scheme and raved Sdinapest on sca medi 69,515 orefor2021 22402025 cra burden willbe borne bythe  subsidy ona key fe wistform 26 rom 866550 apm forV2125, EntralgvernmentOnetmespe  ue PE ,Mecinerdectionon the cabinet commitce on eo Gpackageupt,850crreis  Ounisagovern exteningthe oe timespe non afinliocrested separate SporovedtoxDAP eritserinfr  ment fulycommived  WME cal package on diamine. funforinnnation anthology imatioandbwadcaingminiter  tofurthcrmgwltar  CME nim phosphate withepoue HAT of 824.77 corer techn Shwin Valshnawaaid na press  of farmers armen by ensuing DAP opyinfsonintheinplementatien Information and broadcasting minster Ashwin Vaishraw adereses the brifing. He pointed out thatthe  We ate affrdable prices? ofthese lgshipschemes. pres after amecting ofthe cabinet in New Delhion Wednesday, me global market prices of DAP are  proud of the Prime Minster Flaine eof ech Sekate de togepaiicalconeans  ur cust eT nologyfortsterssesamentoferap tlement beyond the stipulated than 55 of famem who are Thegpvemmenthas stated that damage, claim sctlement am prialunderthePMEBY, ferolednderthecopinaranceare DAPinpatswerempacte diet fesserdaputesvelasohepin Insurance ims of 1.7 lakh thowewhohadoctaalfloasti the RedSea eis sine tebegin. trade sources sald that with the demandof 10-11 MTInbstthee wigdigtltedobogesforeaier crow have been pald to men thebansinF124theoffcilsad. alngoftheyarasshpsactrvted sein global pees of DAP.sucha months, we have ed the longet cnrolmentand grestercovernge? aginst 4000 cronepremimad Snd take an additional 6.500 km hikehas become uneconomical, routestoensire adequate sppyof infomatinandbmadsstngmin- under PMEBY since te hunch Govtallowsnon-basmati tivough the cape of Good Hope, Globalprces ofthe sll autient, DAP although svallally. i ister Ashwini Vashnaw fold the 2016acroningosgrcutiremin. rice exports to Indonesia South fica thustaking ana which eval forthe wintercrops impacted Rajt Kumae Mishra, pressaterthecabinet mecting. ist data Partin in PMB  luring ealysowing sages have secretary the department of fer The agriculture ministry tad optinalforfarmens PMFBY keur- _TheCabinet approved theexport urged recent months ler had stated at ational rab the speci find wil be ised rentyimplemntetin 23stateemd of millontanne fon basmati Earlier, ina Bett improve ministry has conference while stressing micro towarisfunding echnologalin- UnkintantrinaFY24enmnent Hew Indonesia through National avalablity the ertMiser istry atonne BATof management of supplies of on tatves as well as research and _underPMPBYcrossedarecord4mil- CaoperatveExpor LedNCED, The hasoffered an adational subsidy DAPusageforthefortheomingrabi ureters development stu Kinanditspopetedioincaseug expert willbe conducted undera 0f3,500jtonelor DAR.raspe Season outof which 6Oolsbelng Industiyscurces ld FEthat de Agriclture minister Shivranifcandyinthecurent fsa, memorandum of understanding cia packagecestingt2,625 crore, Imported from countries such as _ tosupply dlvupion nthe Rad Sa, Singh Chouhan sald theinsurnce Anoffialsidthecropisurance between NCEL Indascooperation tocaver ising cost during April. Rusia Moca SaudlarabiJor_TandedaastotDaPinthecounty as companies will have to pay a scheneisgadualymovingtoward ministry andthe indonesian gov December 2024-25 to make the dan, gyptand China The anal increased by26romS510 tonne pemliyor 12 frmersonthe asubserpton-busedmodcl rather emmantapicutueministersh- presusaimbleforcompante for domestic production of DAP Is in May to 645tanne or around Chimsifther sadebyingaimset. than loartasedsthome,-More ajSiaghGhouhantoldreporters, procurement of DAP. However, sround 43-18 MT against 2 54000tonne sprees

78. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 202847.png
   Extracted Text: Nagaraju to PSBs Speed up resolution of grievances New Delhi sonuary 2 STRESSING THAT ANY fay in picvance rdresalisagaina the thos of customer service and lmiisbes the band value ofthe rgaisation france sericessce eta MNagarafuhasdwected pub Tesector banks PBs and insur ce companies SIC w address pbc grievances slcerely In a Sme bound manne On Wednesday, _Nagaraj reviewed 20 randomly slot pub Ueqpiovancs revered by PSB aed sles tosses soltion qu During the review meeting, Nagaraotzervedthatthemajety cf istones mised compat dat to genuine grievances against an frgulsaton andstessed hat es tomerstisacionvnssthheatot he grevanceradresalmechanim. eso stresed upon devisieg suitable technieasokitionstomin into therepetivecomplantsofa Similar nature which would save Une fresolutonandincrease the lficiancy of rencition process Govt cuts jet fuel price by 1.5, commercial LPG by 14.5cylinder New Deli anvary 1 THE PRICE OF jt fl, oF ATK, on Wednesday was reduced by 1300 rath rt femmes LPG that Sosedinhoet ane resauantevas futhye 14S pa19-4peyinderinte monthly revision done nine with enchmarkintematioal price Theaviaton turbine fuel ATE pecewasraducedby 1,401.37 per Foie 1.52, 1090455.47in thenatioal capital hometoone ofthe busiest aupocts according tostate owned te reales The atc follows two rounds of monthly increases, Prices were Increased by 2,941 sper 398 on November 1 andby 1,318.12 per KI 143 on December 1 2024-TheATF price in Mumbai as iben duced 8431193 fom 65,861.02 perk previous, Oilsimsslao reduced te pce of commercial LPG by 148 0 14,804 per 19-g cylinder in the aionalespital Tah fist duc tion ater fifth straight monthly hikes in commercial LPG peice ates wer hiked by16.5 per 19 gelinder at thelastevsion on December Lin veprce increases, commercial LPG tates had beet hikedby 172.5 per19-kgeyinde. Commerce LPG now cost 156per19-kgofindern Mam bai 1,911 inet, and 1,966 InGhennal Prices of ATF and LAG Aliferftometatetortatedepending fon the Incidence of local taxes including VAT. The rate of cooking, MONTHLY REVISION P 2 wes  x LATE prices for domestic airines oltre Applicable from taary 3,202 METRO prices ahi 9045547  rolkata 9505679 NN Memb 0451295 NL Chennai 9567072 1 A1949 commercial cyindor ow costs 04 inl, e17s6inMimbs, 9 in lata, and 8,966 Chennat  Domestic cooking gasrate remaine unenanged gas used in domestic houschols Rowevet remained unchanged 3 803 pet 14.2-kg finde Stte-owmedindlan Ol Corpo ration 100, Bharat Petroletn Corporation Ltd PCL, and Hin dhstonetoleurn Corporation Li HPC revise prices of ATF an ooking gas the fist o eer month aceon theaverage pri of benchmark international fu ana fexnign emchange rata,

79. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 202929.png
   Extracted Text: DISPATCHES SOAR 14 YoY TO 320,000 UNITS SUV demand puts Dec PV sales in the fast lane eSales hit 4.3 million in 2024, marking 4.8 growth New eth Janvay 2 DRIVEN By ROBUST demand for sports tity wehicles SUV pas senger vehicle PV sales  dle patches fiom manufacturers to dealers in December stood at 320,000 units, up 14 yearon yeazmarkinga stongend02024. Ofthefiwleading utomaken, Maruti Sur, iyundai Motor india, Tata Motors Mablndra  Mahinda,and Toyota Kirskar. which eported her sales number on Wednesday, only Hyundat reported a decline of 1.3 while Tata Motors reported alow single dig growthot 2 or the 2024 calendaryear,PV sales reached approximately 4.3 rallon units patron 4 i Bonin 2023TheSUV serment has been instrumental inthis growth, wthitsshareof eal salescib ing w over 350 at the end of Drcember compared to less than Soneattheend of March tleyent. MaruthSuzukt the country largest passenger vehicle man facturerwitnesed 2195 surgeln uty vehclesaes,rivenby pop. ulsrmodels like thelmetoCeand Vitara, and Exiga Partho Bane joe, senlorexceutive ofier, mar tSting and salessnoedThe share of sUVsinourtotal dispatches as grown steadily froma inApeil 027.990 In December Thishas been ourbest month and yenrin retail sales On an overallbass, Marutlsdomesticcles during the month was up 24.1 from the samemonth lst eat Mahindra  Mahindra also reported an 1896 inereaseinSUV INTOP GEAR Domestic auto sales Gn unts a Dec 2023 m Dee 2094 A change rok Aispatches,on the back of robust demand formodele lke theThar snd Sop. Though Hyundal Motorsawa marginal 13 decline in Decem ber dispatches le flgship SUV Greta achieved record-breaking yearly domestic ales of 186919 Units, contributing 67-68 to Hina ota PV snes fr 202, Greta continies to reinforce cur position asm SUV lender id Tarun Garg whole-time director 2n.C00, junds Motor Ina at Motorereconledamodest 20 growth in December ds patches anda 1.8 Increase for the calendar yeas SUV porto Hi backed by new product launches like the Cufvy and Neson.cr45 asa keydrver Ou mult-powertain strategy and innovative offerings have been well received sid Salleh Caan vis a2 Hyd Tae ra, managing director of Tata Moors FassengerVehlds. Slower demand for 2Ws thetworwheeler market expe fenced subdued demand. Ba Ruto reported 19 drop in domestics in December, wth Siopatches falling to 126,000 tink tom 158000 units In December 2023 ooking ahead, automake remain optimistic about the BV marke tajectoryin 2025-We expos the induteytoconinue ie upward momentum? said Chandra of Tata Motors While challenges suchas high aiatrbutr inventory slowed rowthincarly2024,autorakers EEdadtheyenton posiive nos, rien by he growing preference fersuve

80. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 202944.png
   Extracted Text: Air India set for major global expansion, says CEO Wilson PRESS TRUST OF INDIA, New Del january 2 AIR INDIA HAS covered a lot of ground since privatisation and ts flobal coverage will further Ierease inthe yarsabeadthe ai ines ee campbell Wilson sald comedies. Heabo sad theinteir eft of the singleisle fet, serving domestic andshort haul interna tional destinations sundersay, nd wil be completed by mid oss-making Al India was acuized by the Tata Group from the gorernmentin January 2 fads undergoing an ambitious ve year wansformation pan. 1 2024, Air India completed he mergerof Vista th itslfas well as integration of Air India Expressand AIX Connect wasalso doe Imhis New Yearmessage, Wikon  saldthese meses andnew alert deliveries have taken Air india oupsteetto 300aieaftallow itt expan to oer LOD deme ieandintenationsl destinations ir Inds global cover gel further inrese in the years ahead, notleastbecause ofthe recent al onot100aiemitoourorderingk, Sugaenting the earlier comma enor 70 main 2023s The Airindia CEO andMD ako saidthere newarertvallbesup- ported by a brand-new 12-bay uaitenance ality and malate nancetnining schoolin Benga fcesataka anew S4-areratt fight choo! in Amravati Maha sbta andthe taining academy inGuragpar Haryana Indix iz one of the world estes wowing Gileyaon ma keteandefforsarebeingmadeto mab the countryaglebalavation hubwith indiancarriers providing. CCAMMREL Yn, cro. AR NO  130,000 Air Indians are fully com- mitted to improving the quality and 8 of our services, in all areas, so that AirIndia becomes the wordchasraitineweallwant tos gS a me. Al first airline to roll out PRIVATECARRERAIR ninon when sbovet0,00fetisaid. RednccijraatetWitiner The dcploynen of Ron wevcomechiy mies co donee eater allows an lt asap pam Eigen widebody Abus natal sts peed onal ouig 7 tee bythexsbusads0 seers Swenson aus as AlD1 neo and Boe STinareate ing 0787.9 ae smaesArindia QM setring inieratonal thefirstaidinetoofiersuch  M destinations including series on tights wahin So Nerik London Pars and india the aitne sak Singapore Aswiththe domes Acesibe onWit-enabled PP tic offer, WF complimen. doveessuchasaptopsjables,  tay foran nwoductary pero, fandsmartphonesvehOSor fl Airindiasaid andridoperatngsystems the it Indi eid all pro InnlgheWeFiwalasoatiow BAL gressively al out the service dice ightstointernationaldes-_Al130,000 ir Indians really tinations committed to improving the qual hirtndia has covered alot of yan consistency of out sores, sgroundintheperiodsinee prvati- in all areas, so that Air India Shion we acknowledge theres becomes theverld-dassalinewe ech moreto bedoe allwantittobebe sid

81. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 203011.png
   Extracted Text: Q-comm delivers record sales on New Years Eve RAGHAV AGGARWAL New Delhi January QUICK COMMERCE FIRMS saw Uhelesales soar tounprecedented levels on December 31. However, Industry leaders anticipate a toughoud abesdin 2025 asco Petition intensifies and market Synamicsevche Anat Palichs,co-founderand ce Oat teptavunderscored the see torsremarkable growth and the Shallenges that lle ahead in to Separate LinkedinpostsThis New YeartEvemarieds 200i increase in sales compared to last year However, i willbecomeincreas ingly clea in 2025 that q-com merce requires exceptional eect tion tothe Palicka sai. Zepto recorded an extraor nary pace fsalesmoving 3385 ee ule packets per hour a 2.625 Jumpfomiast year Hine customer valve propos on wil level up quickly Unt eo- omicrand efforts to bald operst. ing leverage will evolve, and the capital maskets environment for iisindustrywillooksigaiantly tliferent compared to 2024 and 2003Palchasai Meanwhile, commenting on sales om December 3, inet CBO binder Dina sald that the Company achieved highestever frders in a day. Popular items Included grapes chips and soda  reflecting festive ends. Swiggy Intamatt also ot anew forord, deublingitspreniousNew YearsEve SSlesand sang over500,000 puck ef chips Sales of cola sot rinks Surgea by 39496, while clear sot ris skyrocketedby 941 Bighssket, confirmedits com smlumeat to rapid delvery by expanding ino medicines ata inpandcplangtoosdbery 2035 Nownmie itexpanted Ite produc okrings to ince besten gees, anda panier, Sipportd by sme inwodced neonate he commerce Iandscape is tecomisinceaingycomdein 2O2iecommercegane Amazon Sad fpr fone the aye domestic payers suchas Mya SytanandRelane Real poed faster deivery series. iinet tas ts pouton ithe marist ich one share owed yZepoandswgyinsaman. Sush Mcea, an analyst at Datum neligence hgh te Indisuydiericatone ve cn cexpecmor payers experimenting is qcomenttncaegoderng shin, cectronies ent, and Peds Mosaacbered Asrior ink ofa, speak lngonite condontancoyy, tfewed hence forinnvation aintainmaret dominance! The make has growa large and the number of players has increase Weve focusing on inovatian and cexpandingtomorecitis theese Gtiesaide Despiterobustgrowth industry leaderrarecautiousabout what lee ahead Pulichs comments about operational excellence underscore hethiamurghforemorinasecor ere execution ceed Morgan Stanley srecent report aaddsweaghttothisperspectie ro Jeatng that commerce wil sur ass food delivey in gross order Value GOV by 2025 However, wamedofchallengesasthemasket imatures The real challenge of rowthand potential madet share fer il arg asthe overall mast atures the rept state Companies are responding by desig tcrctigsand oer neon customer retention Zepts Supetsaver init encounges bulk orders while Bintan Big islet ae integrating new cate gavestoinceaseasie saesandtap stove consumer nee,

82. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 203126.png
   Extracted Text: SENSEX RISES 368 POINTS, NIFTY UP 98 POINTS AS AUTO STOCKS RALLY Indices begin 2025 ona high eFPIscontinue selling spree Mombal anvary 2 AFTERCLOSINGIN theredon the Bet dy of 2024, benchmark indies started the newyearon 3 postive note, On Wednetdaythe Scnsexhit ahighof 78.75649,up 617-48 points 00.79. However pared some gains to end the day at_78,307-41, up 568.40 pantsor 0.478 The Nilty scared by9810polntsor0.41910 lose a 23,742.90. The indies femained inthe postive teritry format part of the trading se iowever, foreign portfolio investersFPlscontinued oben 2selingspree According toprov Sonal dats fom exchanges, Fs Sold equities worth 1,782.72 rorevmiledomesticinstiutional Investor Dil net bought shares worth 1,690.37 crore Wednesdays surge as mostly powered by aute capital goods, EndindustaissharesStrongeales utabers lr December generated fnvestor interest insta stocks Among the wp five Nifty galners, three were from the ato sector. POSITIVE START 78,807.61 cover ian 1 25  ley 257429 By cose oss 120125, 25,60, Clove Dee 313h Open 23,687.65 Sensex, Nifty retums on rst day f ealendars cha Senex micy Bas 38 88 ies as - MarutiSuru with. 2686jump, are postive ona quater on-quae merged thetopNifiygainer. ter basis sald Vinod Malt, hemarketstarted onapost- head of research at. Geoit tivenots on the fst day of 2025. Fimandal services The recovery was beotdcbased, An uptick in core sector data while the sustainability of the andthe prospectofinceased gov Uuendwil depend an theearnings eramentaapiatespendiure isthe powthinswherecxpecations remainder ofthe fara boosted sectors such as capital goods, Industrials auto, and power, Nar side, Realtyandmetalwer theonly losing sectors among the BSE Indices While realty declined by 113, metals lpped marginally by 0.1. Tata Steel as the top Stnuex loser faling.9 6, Treoverllmaseetbreadth wae positive with 2.749 gainers en pared t 1,240 losers. The Broader indices ousper- BSE deap rising by 0.30 and the BSE Smalleap increasing by 1306 vests wealth surged by x2 lakh eroreto 444.43 15k toe during the sesion, Mast analysts offered a bullsh outlook forthe equity markets in 32025. Bulls will dominate in 25, with the Mitty expected to Aelivera 19 return ad each potential target of 28,700 over fhe next 13 months, Boj Broking sald ina recent market utlok report Weforweast Nitybas target, of 2600 for December 2085, Suggesting a moderate return of AO yeartonyeat supported by fin expected earnings revamp Q3FV25 envards?Geopt Fnandial Senncensnidinareport,

83. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 203217.png
   Extracted Text: UPI transactions hit record high in Dec value at 23.25Lcr ANNUAL FIGURES Valume bition crowthe aie bk Growth sus a7 392 Li SACHIN KUMAR. lakhcrorelast yea, comparcd with Mumbal January 1183 lakh corein 2023 asperthe Aatatrom NPCt DIGITALTRANSACTIONS CON-  Onan sna basis, UPI trans TINUED their upward trent in actions sawa 39S growth in vl December, with the number of me anda?890 ncreaseinvaue ransactions onthe Unified Pay- The data further showed that rents InterfaceUPD rising 8 Immediate Payment Service onth-ou-month tohitatecord IMPS wansactions were up by of 1673 blon accordingtodata_ So in December to 441 milion from the National Payments Cor agaist 408 millon in November poration onda NPC. 467 milionin Octaber The UPltransacionvalumein Invalue terms, this was 6.02 Novemberstoodat 3 A8 billion, lakheroreupStotiom 3538 kh Thevalue of UPLtransactions corein November, and 86.2912 also surged 81 to 23,25 lakh  covein October frore,upfrom 21.55lakh crore TASTSg. transactions grew inNovember by 60e in volumeto 382 milion For the entice year, UPI in December, against 359 milion processed around 172 billon Ip November and 343 mllon in fransactions, marking a 46 October. The valucalso increased Inease tom 118billonin 2023. by 909 to 6,642 exore sgalnst In value terms, UPI transac 6,070 erore in November and tions gewby3Stetoneary e217 6,115 crorein Ocwoer

84. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 203305.png
   Extracted Text: US stocks fall to close out best two-year stretch since 1998 NATALIAKNIAZHEVICH January US STOCKS DECUNED inthe fina sssionoftheyesrbutstilcsedout thebettwo-perrunsince 1998 The SkPS00IndesfeH0 oink, yndaythelongestosngstakt fend ayearsince 1966. The Nasiag 400 declined 09 ad the Dow Ionesindustral average fll 0.1. TheRusel 2000 indents O12 SRP500 Index as sarge 2396 thisyearstoled osty bythe ype mn artiitaintligence rene hroughs. But gans slowed in the fal gateral eyearasthe parol the ally mised concems and investor gevrjitay aout factors uch ae Presdentcleet Donald Trumps protectionist pelidesand thepossiblity fewer interest ate tutto the federal Reserve Teindextell2s6inDecanber, smarking ts weakest return since Apai.tscuenty trading below ts 50-daymovingaverageseenasakzy shor erm technical support evel Oniy1bot sock aretratingabowe he50-day movngaverge _ecenberhastrnedintoachal Jenging month for most US stock Indexes The small ap Russel 2000 Sdown morethansivon themonth, the worst monthly performances ince Sepember 2022 November and exry December were vary con Cnizatedatthetopofthemarke  davtakenchoncethownames took at besther for market oboe momentum? wrote Walter Todd presidentand chit investmentof rat Greenwood Capital Valuations See elevated, there area lot of Unknownsregarding pew adminis tation and core ghar in es Inne been reblensticforstock Among prominent mover, US Stee shares jumpdafterthe Wad gon Pst reponted that Nippon See offerte den amin Uonavwtooveroutputeatsaspartor Slastditch bi for appeal ofits roptsed merger. BLOOMBERG AFTER RECORD RUN Bitcoin slips in Dec from peak January BITCOINS RECORD-BREAKING RUN faltered towasd the end of 2024 leadingto ts rst monthly dropstnceaugust, Theda asset fell3.296last month asUSinvestrecashed pot its aftera ally triggered by Presi dent lee Donald Trumps itary pushed ttcontoan alltime igh 108,315 mid-December. fever inh epecuation inthe cypto mar kethas cooled as expectations for Interstate cute from the Federal Reservewaned,eroingappeitefor Feierasnt, BLOOMBERG

85. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 203426.png
   Extracted Text: ASTMONTH, THESccuritis aud Fachange Boardaf ida Sebi proposed significant Ghanges tos framework _goveming ago trading. To reeap quickly algerie wading, of Agptraling ten tomy tingactty hat automates wade, and does not abiemanl intenementopice any ders ormoniter lcs Theraretovowaysin which one cn cary out algo trading Thestralghtfor ward method ito se the algorithms rowed bythe stockbroker. The other Euteistheoughapplcaton programme Interface APwich enable electronic gutems to connect with each other Thinkofitasadata pipe whieh carves youralgorithm. AP enablethe tas mission ofinformationandasaresl. Diedparty an eaten cdeth lene ites onthe beaker splatform, Ta thecontext of age tading thin patties provide their algo on ay, plat form, which s connected to thebro kes platform through an APLThus, den placed by thechent onplatform Xgetpasedontothe cher Now le broker can identify that an order is omingin tough anaPL teannotver fythattheordersanalgo order 1m2031, concerned with the eof unmade Sei propose to reat AM ordersasalg odets. This wasa, awed departure from is mision to cencourgeinnovativeand digital sot tne thesecuesmaskeasthereg- laters proposal woul havesaled cn ectivty between brokets and other Sophisticated payer inked otha for non alge purposes. le appeate thatthe Proposal has been scrapped, and after Stensveconsletonswihthe inky, tocre practical oppoachhasbeon pe owed WitrespeatoaPlorsessblhas ggetd that anorderpersecond OPS threshold be specified and that all APL  EVOLVING MARKETS SEB PROPOSAL SEEKS TO STRIKE A BALANCE BETWEEN REGULATORY CONCERNS AND INTERESTS OF STAKEHOLDERS The future of algo trading SANDEEP PAREKH oders above sch threshold would be mated aalgoonie. Second, Sbi has proposed tobring  nie algo prondenABswitinthe regu These would be agents of Stockbrokers, simalar to the present hore poncnortheestwile b trokeeonere APS woulda veto re Bterwithestockechangeandger thle alg approved by the exchange. This would eneum that hebakersesponst be for customer grievances, and the rede mechanison eployed by Sebiwonld be yale to AP cents nc duals who design their ownalgswouldalsohavets pi them approved by the Stock exchanges through beirbke The regulator has also sought to categorise alg intowhieboxandblacboe algos White boralgos ao Inc asereutionalgasarethotewhich cenecuteordershasedon fly tanspaent ports, where the loge, derision making proceses andunderiing ules deacekeideandundentandabletousers Sndrepcabe ack ex algoeare those whowelogiisnecnewn totheusrandis Tot mplbable For providing Back bo lgosanewouldbemguedtoregsteras anresareh analysand foreach algo esearth epart would have tobe mal and In ease of any change in tealgo lope itwoulthavetobergtened aes, alongwethancereport The proposed fameworkplacessig Atumaround time must be specified toregister algos, including a fast- track registration forsome suchas white box algos treponaiiteson stockbroker. They would have toputsystemsin pce deer identtyandeaepeeteallries bovethespeafiedOFSthresbeiasalgo Seder They would abo ave to ensure ha they can distinguish between algo and nt algo ordes. Further, tok would no longer be permitted to offer Open APIs wensureldentfation and raceabiltyofthevendorandend wer Whether sud wstiiclons ereturedinvewotenes resi theOPSthresold aye monthought AP haveusesbeyondalgo trading The proposed ccalarshould not standin theway ofsuchuseases, The stoce exchanges wouldaleohavewdoa ir brea work theyre define the roles and responsibilities of bakers and erpaar dled vendors and lay downthe creer Sind peoces of vendarempanelmentA mroundtime mast specified for Tepltztion of ages inching fast uackregbtrationforsomesuchaswhite bavalgs Further theexchanges would avetodepoyaddiional resources They would be reine oconductpost ade Tmontorngotilgoosiesand asad putin plea standard operstingproce Sue oralg testing Further dhey must havetheabltytouseakilswitehtostop malfunctioning algos They woulda Tine to supers itapet at ss fers have the aby 10 dsinguish tetweenalpandnon alone ass detailed operational moda iterosandreurabiitiotstce trokersand APs ncadingrisk manage entsytems fraPlontes. Treen posal teeta amare cf thought ot andes be snapproach hat sis alae over dicineratotwaknadensnd Sbfseoncra in ancterpsite ove ntslas boa mecting of 2024 Seb th garted appeal ote recog nota isk andere esicton gene PARRA whieh alley ot the erietion of ise retur metrs Interalatoraouraling, ere are sil some points which snayrequle rethinking aalgo wading ks up, sichas Seis carer question Etwhether an alo should bea ality roiled by aresearch nae aves entadvise or separate dss of eg intents sogeter, With tne pro iratom of seal teligene A oles responsi ak, sd Tabi Uesaregetingredefed Towever there ate few tems that nay mate consderaton som int how. forinstncealgs my bedeskgned ipa hat may arse foc itancsmustalsobedalterstedupen, sbngwiththererandrespnshiis ifthe clement nese there mayncrerbeone right anne dg avon of something as innovasve 3 Sigorochl- ted algess bound oe te someunnecesary bureaucracy. Imnportant for theregulator oa east, trea grip on something that could favesjstemicimpactonthe markets eautioredwith ParkerKariaand Pry Gang respective sions teandasonete nec lawAdvsors

86. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 203601.png
   Extracted Text: Regulation, deals, crypto Fintech themes for 2025 EMILY MASON January THE CLOUDS THAT hung Over thetinancialfechology Indutryin 2024 sppearto be clearing asinterest rate ci, recoveries in fntech stocks and posses ofa lowe top Ttoryenvionment inthe see fond Tromp adeaiistration paint a more promising out oktor startups After apturing a windfall of investment daring the erod that flowed the Covi TO pandemle, the fintech tndutey vasteepatstartps serospayments ending can Somerbankingand ether eat gories faced challenging Sslvsment pero, Asventue-capital funding vied up, some Bntechs cut the spendingthrough ayes and. ore focused. product Strategies thers within antwarchestsbeld ontovalr Stionsthatnoeappesrtohave Beeminflted during the fren ed funding period These factor alcombined to stall deal actinty slow srowthaninpirelmentsof fntech winter For 2025, however indus insdrsare optimistic thatthe tide wil en and momentum wil baildaround newtechaolgies like stablecoins an that xp tal ralsing, aqulatons and Public iatngs wil begin to Plckup. Herearetheefintech Relaxed regulation The ankrupeey oftanking as temiee startup Synapse Financial Technlogies left tMowsnds of fintech cs omer withostacrstofunds held in secounts that were in somecaves advertised pro ected by the Federal Depot Insurance The debacle pat partnerships between banks nd ated startupsin here. latory hot seat and acceler. KEY TAKEAWAYS or Fintech investment  9. Gapternga 250  Datars ested WIE  nate Ivete postmen, Sr fntech industys 100 anterpot parents fending an on Earn iced sSaloees Sdhsenere peed se  Ea 201s 2001200  2022203 Senicestrtp fs fenong Franch aw crPsinsrecentmoves ane jes Inve caing overight cal Wetbounds Sats pede ogee, ttrtach  While the public market sentiment cumomers___Emarepromang.ony stew isch wihewicces free waederouhtore wets Confident weather the Wanstion ated a ware of enforcement ctonsagnnstso called spon orbanka which partner ath Bntechetoenablethem oofer Financ predetsThe crrent administration has espondet fwith a alate of enforcement ction proposele changes nd publieguuance eteven before the Syrapse istater FDIC Chatman Mar UnGrucaberstokedtheizeo! policy groups ike the Ameri Ean Fitech Couned, which argues that hisagency adopted 2tegubtonby enforcement Spproch stifling inmotion inthebanking dusty. Silly, the Consomer Financial Protection Buea Cs hasongbeesaccsedot regulataryorereach erect moveshave Included claiming oversight ofdigitalwalletsped ld by age tecncogy co panies and probing fntech ims including Panfal ings tiem lings Kine GixipandodsAferpay. That al stands to change underthe nesming admis Xttion Donal Trmpsas ers have sought to shin or including the FDIC andthe CFP the WallStreet Journal reported lon Muskco eadot Hentai dae Depart ment of Government if eneyorDOGE sues cto Delete CRP in an X post, President elect rump sup ports DOGE snd bathe power need to ase ChPscrectr Rohit Chopra nothing se Other financial repustors fexpeced to. be replaced snes the PONCE Greabery and the acting head of the Ditice of the Cempcller of the Currency, Michaels, Deals, deals, deals The bounce-back of pubiy traded fintech companies fol Towing steep declines fom 2001 peaks has stoked opt mis that opportunities for public isting aon the hot on, Tee ntcnnowaton Ethmseabout3494in2024, Buy now, pay-iater firm klar and neobank Chime Financ ave filed fornia publi offerings, setting the Stag for other itech tool Iwsult Suipe and Plaldare other cnet IPO contenders. Youcan see the ogling from the market sid Mat Streieels, genera partner at intech investment firm Oak HCIFE Ae you head Into the backend of 2035 and arly 2026 youcan see public Sindowsopen While the public market sentiment more promising only Banc ofprovate fin tech me ate scaled enough thattheywouldbeabletocon Fidenuy weather the tans tion. Meni intact ven ture funding has slowed to pre-pandeme bevels Crypto payments gomainstream ne. month after Donald ramp won the reste tlocion Soin ped the So 00d tne er ely buoyed bythe pre Syptoatitude of the pes femeele Trumps tneurabe Sttadetwan cypenestends ohimgstngis on theacton nally premise Poet Mond vty cal Thelncoming amis Iayespuwnin thst tions tout technologies Ierabicesine eye fx those tying tocxpand inter nationally. BLOOMBERG

87. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-02 203636.png
   Extracted Text: Bhopal gas tragedy 40 yrs later, toxic waste leaves Union Carbide factory PRESS TRUSTOF INDIA Bhopal January 2 FORTY YEARS AFTER the Bhopal as tragedy the shite Ingosome 397 tonne of haz aris waste began from the defunct Unionsbidetacary onWednexdaynighter sd posal anofial sa shied in Ldvmledcontine iradstothcPabampurinde sialon nDaar dee 250 knnavey orn Boop 1 Deontainertrcks cay ing the wasteset offen a stop journey around pr. A green corrlor has been ee ste forthe eich re expected toed Pithampur inven bout sad Bhopal Thetoxicwasteis being shied 12sesled container rocks oF mampur industrial sea, 250 km any rom Bhopal Gxe Tragedy eiefand Reba. the waste in tricks. They Dilation Department Diee- underwent health eeek-upe torSwatantraKumarSingh. and were given rest every 30, Hesaularound 100 people mites added worked in 30-minute shits Highly tone methyl bo ShnceSundaytopackandioad cyanate MICgasleakedrom the Union Carbide pesticide factory on the intervening righ of Decerber 23,198, UUling at least 3,429 people and lenving thowsands with Serousandiong tng heal snes ts considered tobe mong the worst industeal inter inthe wold The Mada Pradesh High Ccautton December 3 rebuked Suthories for not dering the Union Carbide stein Boopal esptedrectonsremeventhe Stpreme Gout and sets fu sekdestineto shit thew, tbserving hat even 40 yeas sftrthegastrageyauthortis werehatsiatectinetat The high court bench had warned dhe government of CSatenpt proceedings if drective was not followed,

88. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-03 201910.png
   Extracted Text: Employment up 36 between FYA5, FY24 euniovvesmintHe DETAILS country has increased by he   i Oe regime, lbbourminister  SOM? i under the UPA 29 sroppedtiom million additional jobs Were crested whereas 6 Worker Population Ration der the Wo wh rove fom in government 1719 Lad Mantoanaeinevae milflonjeswereaddes.  i  Growthin employment  pom Fos torricmevistorvas Employability ofthe 25 ss tein n2025-24 alone, around 46milion obs were createdin the country

89. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-03 202115.png
   Extracted Text: DoT likely to shelve BSNLs VRS proposal amid union protests Varun Beverages to invest 412 cr in SA VARUN BEVERAGES VBL the leading btlarofPepsico,on Thurs announced to vest uaacrereintsSouthafican Proprietary aveo Bevco, an Crating subsidy VBL srgaged in hebusnes of frandfacturing ad dstrioution of Iceneed prosucrs fom Pepe, Nasscom foundation names Jyoti as CEO NASSCOM FOUNDATION announced the appointment of y0U Sharma asits new ciet enecitive acer fective immediatly. Sueceeding Nichi thasin, sharma brings aver 20, years of experience in driving eial impact and leading program development, resource mobilization, and akehoider engagement. Waaree Energies wins 150 MWp order Waaree Energies on Thursday SBidithas secured an orderto Supply solar modules totalling 9 Expacity 1150 Mp fora mmajr renewable projet mn Inca, The contractinclides the supply of Waarees flagship high-efficiency Glass Neype Topcon facial madvlen rated 28 588S00Wp. FEeUREAUA PT. JxTIN GROVER New Delhi January 2 opps sons thedpain Iikey put the second voluntary elizement scheme URS poposal forBsNLonholdofBcals sid The telecom department ill bold further consultations inter allyandisalsoexpected oloapin Boston Consuiting Group CG before gong ahead withthe pro otal Notably, DCG is being paid ba crore todmwareval pian for SNL and help it to compete swithprivate payers. Tastweeb, the BSNL manage ment had approved the proposal Grasecond VRSechere for BSNL, Upon implementation, the VRS scheme would haveled to reduc oninatlont359of ts woforce of over 56000 exzcuthes and non executives employees The sme would have led to an outgo of 15,000croreforthe government The governments neat bechind belging another VRS for SW toreduceremployeecosts inabid tomas thcompany prof table by 27. BSNL Incurred 8304 crore towards slates wagesallowancesandotherbene which wae 439efltopeating revemein P28 TSSNL officals sald BCG is VRS STATUS constations with Bs to proceed before decision 1986 pald 2132 crore orBsNtrevivalplan smvRScould  VRS reduce BSNLs  cost woriferce  government byss  215,000er a VRS aime to make BSNL prfiabe by A727 INL spent 88,504 crore Cn slaerin Fra capected to submit its report thine montieandpost that Tnaldeclsonvilbetaien Whencontacted, BCG rfusedto comment onthe matter, ref laed police ofthe Gor emamentandtheinetidency ofthe BSNL management has com tuibuted to BSNLs present situa tion Hoveverinstead ofeectfying theiemistaies,both the mange tent and the government try to punta picturethat the employees rengih of BSNLis the eas for the woes ofthe company said P Abhimanyu, general secetary of BSNL Employees Union na letter toBSNLCMD. ls masnetargets ssi markot sare yearend ss Usions eppese Yas, bhming Bygoweand BSNL MS Adsl general secretary Sanchar Nigam Execs Assoc! ation ait doesnot mean tha the officers in Dot continae tc lame only the workforce of BSNL forany fatter and ts required that offers in DoT also need t akeresponsibityforite decison hcordlngto Mas theasoda tionshavetaen up there wit Dotand BSNLmanagement andi wrillcntinuetooppose such VR proposals. In 2020 when the is iw plemented in BSN xpecation was that_ around 5300001035 000 employees woul apt fort However rind 80,00, employees tok

90. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-03 202143.png
   Extracted Text: 2wsales skid 9, lowest in overa year SWARAJ BAGGONKAR MimbalJanoary? Idscoctersofveof inca stp et manufacturers to dealers fll 990 year-on yea during December Stocking effort al wer retall demand took tollon expats, Hero Motocarp, TVS. Motor Company, Bj At, Royal Enel nd Suzukl ellectively sold 815,000 whites durngtherepor Ing month, These manufacturers control neal 70 the domestic too iheeler market. Though vo meaner expertedtobemtedtoe December for all manufacturers, rept Royal Eid they ae Ieetthe expecationofaralysts The fallin values was led by Ini ingest to wheeler maker Hero Motocorpwhihsld 32,000 admopot IBoy-0y Niranjan Gupta, chi exeutve officer CEO of Hero MotaCorp Sid Aswe lock forward 2025, tw re poeedforan caring ur bey wih Key product launches inching expansion of EV porto lo,furter strengthening of pre snlum portale and new sooter Tadelsin ICE segment. Webelive mpiowmentin hebeanderas tomer sentiment may lead to even Songer demand recovery for us andthe nds Volume of Pune-based Bj FIGURES DWINDLE. Domestic sales wits moec202u 4g Keke 395 952 Fed s7a0. a 9 Royal Siu nels surta, g ip Cre raenhag Auto, Indias fourth largest two eer makersliby 1989-0 30 128,000 units. The company dowtalad ts stock during Dee bertoenterthenewyearwith min itnalimentryleadigtoa alias dipatchvelumes December wohumeswete ae pet expectations Some vancement fslesaupurchsededisonshap- pens and model year change In 300s leads to owas in Decent bbeWetocctheopportunitytocor recatocis Rakesh sham exest tUve director, BalajAutosa in an Interview with CNDCTV 18. It would ot be correct to extrapolate data from July and December which are deadmonths The yar tovdate powth s 9 of rmotoreyclesandwe expect Os tbe 26-800 giowth zane Sharma eles TVS Motor Companys ttal for December was neat nchanged compared tothe samemonth ust ear The company sawan adition fst 7 unit duingthemonthto 215075 uns The company elec trie vehicle division saw 9.7980 growth involumesto 20,171 uns Tea by the rural segment, the to whenereatogoryhaseported Hrongyowthiacrerymosth yo since August 2023. Demand fo Evshas lao been robust in almost tachof these months adding othe overallvolumeprowth. Royal Enel bucked the trend toposta growth of 19 in Dee berto..891 uns on theback ot new iuncies

91. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-03 202303.png
   Extracted Text: Smartworks takes 480,000 sq ft in Gurugram for 94-cr rent peryear RAGHAVENDRA KAMATH Mumbai, January 2 CO- WORKING PLAYER SMARTWORKS has leased 480,000sq ftinaDLFproperty inGurgaonatanannualrentof 294.68 croreforsixyears. The space is located in DLF Commercial Building Block -3 in DLE City-Phase 5, Gurgaon, according to data accessed by Propstack. The monthly rent amounts to 7.89 croreor 165 per square feet per month, it said, adding that the deposit amountis 47 35 crore. The company hasaccessto a total of six floors, including the ground floor, and 794 car parking spaces.The agreement hasarentalescalation of 99in November 2027, The company has a total superbuilt-upareaof 9.12 mil- lion squarefeet,across45 cen- tresin 13 cities. Thisisthe fourth managed campus for Smartworks in Gurugram, in addition to the existing campuses situated in Golf View Corporate Towers GolfCourseRoad, RK4Square Cyber City, and ASF Insignia Vatsal Vailey. Smartworks is working towards making the TOP CO-WORKING LEASING DEALS Loam erry ed Tenant Gane Pune  SSProperties Smanworks Coworking Spaces  72.5 MNM6.13,451 Gurugram  DF Smartworks Coworking Spaces  165 J 4,78,327 Bangalore  Manyata Promoters Weworkindia Management   76H 3.49,346 Gurugram  Mantaaindia Company  Incuspaze Solutions sem 23301 Cchennai Aira TPDevelopment  Tablespace Technolgies  _ 93214786 Hyderabad K RahejaITPark hyderabad  TablespaceTechnologies   744 3,96,592 The company has access toa total ofsix floors, including the ground floor, and 79 car parking spaces new centre operational by Feb- tocatertotheevolvingneedsof _ gram inrecentmonths. ruary2025,itsaid inarelease, _ themodern workspaces Recently, WeWork India, a Neetish Sarda, founder, Smartworks has been flexible workspace provider, Smartworks,said,Thisexpan activelytaking spaces on lease leased a two-floor building of sion alignswithourcommit- intherecentmonths.nAugust, nearly 117,000 sq ft in DLF ment of empowering enter- itreportedlytook613,000sqft Cybercity, Gurugram. The prises by providing tailored office inPuneforanannualrent company alsotooktwo floors of officesolutions in largecam- ofnearly50crore.talsotook 126,000 sqftin DLE Cybercity, pus settings,equippedwitha a 450,000 sq ft office and Manapakkam, Chennai, the rangeofamenitiesandservices 100,000sq ft officesinGuru- _reportssaid.

92. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-03 202707.png
   Extracted Text: Tesla Cybertruck explodes outside Trumps Vegas hotel REUTERS Las Vegas, January 2 ATESLACYBERTRUCK exploded in flames outside theTrumpInter- national Hotel las Vegas on Wednesday, killing the driver and injuring seven others, and the FBL was investigating whether the blast was an act of terrorism, offi- cialssaid. Videostaken bywitnessesinside and outside the hotel showed the vehicle explodingand flames pour- ing out of it, as it sat outside the hotel. The incidentoccurred justhous after a man drove a truck into crowds of NewYearsDay revelersin New Orleans, killing 15. TheTrump International Hotel in Las Vegas is part of the Trump Organization, the company of President-elect Donald Trump, whowillreturn tothe WhiteHouse on January 20. Tesla CEO Elon Musk wasakeybackerofTrumpin his 2024 presidential campaign andisalso anadvisertothe incom- ingpresident. Obviously a Cybertruck, the Trump hotel - theres lots of ques tions that we have to answer, Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Depart- ment Sheriff Kevin McMahill said at anafternoon press conference. FBI special agent in charge Jeremy Schwartzlatertoldreporters thatitwasnotyetclearwhetherthe blastwasan act of terrorism, Lknow everybodys interested inthat word,and trying toseeifwe can say, Hey, this is a terrorist attack!That is ourgoal, and thats what wee trying to do, Schwartz Flames rise froma Tesla Cybertruck afterit exploded outside Trump International Hotel Las Vegas in Nevada on Thursday. The blast claimed the life of one person and resulted in injuriesto seven people vevrene said. He added that the FBI had identified the person driving the vehicle, which had been rentedin Colorado, but was not yet readyto publicly dentifythe driver. Musk said the blast was unre- lated tothe Cybertruckitself We have now confirmed that the explosion was caused by very large fireworks andora bomb car- ried in the bed of the rented Cybertruck and is unrelated to the vehicleitsetf, Musksaid inaposton XAllvehicle telemetrywas positive atthe time of theexplosion Telemetry involves the auto- matic collection of data from remote sources, transmitting it back to a central source so it can later beanalySed. New Orleans attack Accused was inspired by Islamic State AUS ARMY veteran who drove a pickup truck into a crowd of New Years revelers in New Orleans, killing 15 people,had posted videos tosocial media hoursbeforethecar- nage saying he was inspired by the Islamic State group and expressing adesire to kill, the president said. The FBI said itwas investigating early Wednesdays attack in which the driver steeredaround a police blockadeand dammedinto revelers beforebeingshotdeadbypoliceasa terrorist act and did not believe he acted alone. Investigators found guns and animprovised explosive device in the vehicle  which bore the flagofthelslamicStategroup alongwith other explosive devices elsewhereinthe citysFrenchQuar- ter. The FBI identified the driver as Shamsud-Din Jabbar, 42,a US citizen from Texas. Jabbar joined the Army in 2007, serving on active duty in human resourcesandinformationtechnol- ogy and deploying to Afghanistan from 2009 to 2010, the servicesaid. AP

93. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-03 202739.png
   Extracted Text: US jobless claims fall Apple offers big discounts on new iPhone models in China to eight-month low BLOOMBERG January 2 INITIAL APPLICATIONS FOR US unemployment capped 2024at an eight month low,reflecting the ral- atively muted levels of job cutsin a labormarket thathasremained sur- prisingly resilient. New claims fell by 9,000 to 211,000intheweekended Decem- ber 28, lower than all but one esti- mateina Bloomberg survey. Mean- while continuing applications, a proxy for the number of people receiving benefits, also fell, to a three-month lowof 1.84 million in the week ended December 21, according to Labor Department data released Thursday. The current levels for initial dlaims are subdued and consistent with ajob market where firms are generally holding onto their work- The US labor marketis ending the year in what Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell described this, month asasolid shape spike in the unemployment rate over the summer had raised alarms, prompting policymakers to cutinterest rates bya half-percent- age pointin Septembertohelp sup- portemployment. More recent data have pointedtoalabor market that is moderating but remainsbroadly solid. Iti cooling, but not in away that would raise concerns, Powell said at apress briefing. REUTERS Beijing, January 2 APPLE IS OFFERING rare dis- counts of up to 500 yuan 68.50 on its latest iPhone models in China, as the US tech giant moves todefend its market shareagainst rising competition from domestic rivals like Huawei. The four-day promotion, run- ning from January 4-7, applies to several iPhone models when pur- chased using specific payment methods, according toits website. The flagship iPhone 16 Prowith asstarting price of 7,999 yuan and theiPhone 16 Pro Maxwithastart- ing price of 9,999 yuanvwill see the highest discount of 500 yuan. The STEALDEALS smiPhone 16 Pro withstarting price of7,999 yuan, iPhone 16 Pro Max with starting price of 9,999 yuan will seediscount of s00yuan miPhone 16, iPhone 16 Plus wil receive 4400 yuan reduction 1m Market share in China declining iPhone 16 andiPhone 16 Pluswill receivea 400 yuan reduction, The discounts come as con- sumers remain cautious with spending amid Chinas slowing economy and deflationary pres f sures, with the countrys consumer inflation hitting a five-month low in November. Apple is grappling with declining market share in China, the worlds largest smart- phonemarket.

94. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-03 202819.png
   Extracted Text: First in a decade Tesla annual EVsales drop KARACARLSON slowdown in EVsales.Andithastold January 2 investors that demand for its all- electrics is between two major TESLAS ANNUAL VEHICLE sales growth waves. In April the Austin- dropped forthe first time in more based automaker cut more than than adecade despite a year-end 10 of its workforce, including pushthatsentdeliveriestoarecord  salesstaft. inthe fourth quarter. Even so, Tesla saidas recentlyas The Elon Musk-led company Octoberthat it expected to achieve sold 1.79 millionvehicles last yeas, modest growth in its deliveries for itsaid Thursdaywhichwasslightly all of 2024, The EV maker had lessthan what it delivered in 2023 pushed amyriad ofdealsrelated to andalso below analysts consensus financing, charging and leases to estimate, cend-of year buyers. The results offer a sobering Musk told investors on Teslas reminder of the real-world chal- _atestearnings callthathesees20 lenges for EV makers,even as hype to 30 growth this year, fueled in arounddriverless catsand Musks part bya more affordable vehicle closenesswithPresident-electDon- expected to be unveiled in the first ald Trump have sent Teslas stock half and on the companys soaring in recent months. Luke- autonomous technology. The EV warm consumer demandisweigh- maker has said little about what ingonsalesof dectriccarsjanissue that new vehicle will look like or that could be exacerbated by whatits price willbe. Trumps push to rein in EVincen- _Thereisalreadysome doubtover tives. the companys ability to achieve Teslas shares sank after the Musks 2025 growthobjective,par- results, falling 5.8 as of 10.49 _ ticularly if EVtax credits are rolled amin NewYork Thestockrose 63 back under Trump. Thepresident- in 2024. clecthas been critical of Joe Biden- Forthe quarter ended Dec.31,it _eraEVpoliciesand the EVtaxcredit, delivered495,570vehicles,missing _ which Musk claimed in July would the512,277analystshad projected. hurt Tesla in the near term  but It needed to sell nearly 515,000 _hurtTeslascompetitors more. vehicles in the quarter to meet its. __Atthe same time, Trumpalsois goal for slight growth in the full _ expected to loosen federal rules on year. self-driving vehicles, which could InanotetoclientsBardaysana-_ benefit Tesla and ts rbotaxiambi lyst Dan Levy wrotethat the data tions. Musk wasa top Republican offered nochangetonarrative,but donorin 2024 reinforces challenge for25 growth BLOOMBERG existing models rellanceon still tinknown Model 2.3 Tesla faceda series of set- backs in 2024, incudinganason aml attackatits Berlin factory, shipping diversions and an industry-wide

95. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-03 202927.png
   Extracted Text: Lessons from Manmohan Singh Singh, as an RBI governor living through the permissive 1980s, understood the value of fiscal conservatism and implemented it as finance minister ASHIMA GOYAL  Emeritus professor, Indira Gandhilnstitute INADDITIONTO tohisinvaluablecontsi- butions, Manmohan Singh has eft pow- erfullessonsfor uswithhispersonalityas wellas his policysuccessesand failures Asaperson,heretainedhisgentleness, humility andsimplicity,howeverexalted hispost. Lesson one thus is that decency plusability gets results, despite views to the contrary Itgave him the opportuni- tieshe wanted toserve thecounty. Withhisshampintellect and deep expe- rience within the system,he understood what was feasible, While he didnot waste his time tilting at windmills, he showed tremendous courage and persistence in whateverheundertook.Thestrfaroshik tamanna wasclearinhisfamousBudget speech, While we can wish he had done more, especialy in his second term as, Prime Minister, there were the compul- sionsofacoalitiongovernmentandaviti- ated national atmosphere. The Indian voter seems tohave learnt this lesson and has lagely voted stable governmentssincebothat the Centreand in states while keeping competition alive andoften punishing non-performance. The lesson for governments is that although delveryismade more feasible, re-dectionisconditionalon performance. Many of the corruption allegations during the second tenure of the United Progressive Alliance UPA turned out to beoverdone.But they originated fromtoo much discretion in resource allocation, cevenasgrovthwasceivinguptheirvalue Systemic improvements and a better understanding among regulatory and of Development Research, Mumbai judicial institutions of necessity for eco- nomicexpertise did yield results. While Singhs credentialsas a liber- aliser are justly celebrated, the fourth underappreciated lessonis the subtlety and context-sensitivity of Indias liberal- ising reforms They followed a gradualist path carefully laid out by committees of experts, consistent with Indias structure and needs. Asan example, consider the sequencing of capital account convert- ibility, where liberalisation was more for foreign direct and equity flowsand the least for short-term debt. italaccount convertibiityand had torev- rset positionaftera series of financial crises. heyalso demonstrated indepen- dent, sophisticated and relevant thinking, Asecondexample istheexchangeratere- gimesetthenafteran initial doubledeval- uation, and largely followed since. The rangeof movementhasvaried butitcont- inues tobe market-determined, withint- exvention onlyto preventexcessvolatlty This middleway between fixed and free-floating exchange rates reduced volatility whilepreventing real misalign- mentwithout painfuldom- Debt inflowswerecappedas A osticdeflation or inflation a percentage of domestic One ofthelessons yi. mnuitiple instruments. Imuketsizedsarsuleeap, forthe government Letting the currency fealy ital flows rose, along with todayis the depreciate can cause real thedeepeningof the dom j fexchangerateappreciation tsticmarketThus.dversty IPOrtance oF dation whichis inereasedbut woktltywas _IMprovingits jas desirable than nominal contained, This approach finances during exchangerateapprecation saved indiafromspillovers good times __Thishassometimeshelped duringthe EastAsian crises queens manage inflation in. an or the large interest rate volatility that Indonesia experienced dur- ing the tapertantrum,evenas rising cap- italinflows contributedto thesophistica- tion of ourmarkets. On this pathtowards fullercapitalconvertibility administrative freedoms will rise,evenas foreign capital approaches anatural shareofabout 10 in deep domesticmarkets, which will be abletoabsorbits volatility. Thus, our policymakers understood. emerging market risks better than the InternationalMonetaryFund,whichwas, in the 1990s,pushingstrongly forfull cap- economy dependant on oil imports. All emerging market central banksholdreserves andintervene,which servesanessentialprecautionary purpose, reducing risk premia Ourpolicymakers, wwithSinghatthehelm, understoodthese issuesin the 1990s while textbook free- marketersstill donot. Asthe controller of capital issues was abolished, the Securities and Exchange Board of India was set up. It was well understood that liberalisation meant smartly regulated, not free, markets. Singh,asa Reserve Bank of India gov- ernor living through the permissive 1980s, understood thevalue offiscal con- servatism andimplementeditas finance minister. However, hisFMschose tospend more,evenduringthe highgrowthperiod of the 2000s, and even more after the global financial crisis. As money was pumped intoagriculture without reliev- ingsupply constraints, foodinflation sus- tained at double digits. Rural wages rose so sharply that there was unprecedented growth in real wages. But inflation soon spoiled thepartyas monetarytightening lowered growth. Ina populous country, rising agricultural productivity isa pre- condition for sustained inclusivegrowth. The lessonsforthe gvemmenttoday arethe importance of improving govern- mentfinancesingood timesandf reliev- ingthe crucialsupply-sideconstraints.For example,current largemoney transfers to low-income women will further increase demand for a diversified food basket. States, therefore, must first improve veg- etablesupply chains andremovebarriers toprivate participation in marketing. Stroke-of-the-pen reformsare easy. Domestic supply-side reforms, where statesare involved.arenot.UPA-IIsuffered because they opted for stimulus without first clearing domesticimpediments.The finallessonsaretheimportanceofretain- ing independence from external pres- surestoaddressdomesticpriorities.These interests want to prioritise reforms to attract more foreign capital. Butdoing so without firstreleasing keydomesticcon- straintscan bedangerous,

96. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-03 203142.png
   Extracted Text: Captain Rohit to miss Sydney Test, opts to rest SRIRAM VERA, Sydney, January 2 THE EARLY HINT of India cap- tainRohitSharmasittingoutof tthe final Test of the Border- Gavaskar Trophy at Sydney came from head coachGautam. Gambhir. We shall lookat the pitch andtake call tomorrow? he said at the pre-match press conference hereon Thurstay. Itsrarefortheinclusion ofa team captain being subject to the natureofthepitch, Later, Rohit had alight net session, facing a few casual throwdowns. Therewas no off- cial announcement, but by evening the word was out  Rohit, who hasbeen struggling for runs, had opted to rest while vice-captain Jasprit Bum- rah would leadthe side. Theteamscemedtotakethe change at the top in its stride. After the press conference, Ro- hit, Bumrah and Gambhirwere seen sitting in the bucket seats outside their dressing room  chatting, back-slapping and laughing, Afterthis shortmeet- ing, Rohit walked towards the teambus,tobegreeted bya roar fromasmall crowllinedupout- side. Rohit, Rohit, they cha- ned, and the rested captain gaveabigsmileashesauntered intothe bus. Itwas an unusual day. The pre-match press conference, slated to start at 1.10 pm, started neariyhalf-an-hourlate word came out that the team. was in ameeting, Gambhirand, Rohit Sharma and Jasprit Burrah in the nets, in Sydney on Thursday, ahead of the final Test snaneverna Bumrah could be seen engrossed in along chat before Rohit joined them. Gambhir then walked the corridor to the press-roomto address the media contingent. Very early intheinteraction,an Australian journalist asked about the captainsabsence at the traditional pre-game press conference Is. everything alrightwith Rohit Gambhir stiffened up. Everythingis fine with Rohit and Idontthinkts the eap- tainspresenceat thepresscon- ference anything traditional The head coachis here and that shouldbefineheresponded. But heslowiybegantorelaxa bitand even smiled. Asked how hewas handling the difficult periodoftranstion intheteam, he saidItsthe role of notonly the support staff butyou people themediaaswell Howeanyou, probably,notonlycritcisethem but try and help them out as well?ransitionisnot onlyforus Transtionhappensfortheentire country and all of us are in it together an honest communication with the players, he said And there were some honest words, thatsalllcan say Andhonestyis very important. Honesty is extremely important if you want to probably go on and achieve somegreat things In particular, Gambhir addressed theneed forplayersto strikeabalancebetweenplaying theirnatural gameandadjust- ingtothematchsituation Its team sport and youve got to playwhattheteam needsyouto ddo.Thatsassimple As ever with _iitsrarefor _asitcanget People Gambhir, there the inclusion _can play theirnat- were some frank ofateamcaptain uralgamebutstil, statements. He being subject in a team sport, talked about how the Indian team to the nature of, individuals only contribute. ltsthe haslacked fight the pitch team. If you need at times in this MINN toplayina certain series. Weve got tokeep fightingand thats why wwelove...every one of us aves watching, playing and being a part of Test cricket. know we havegottofightitout And thats probably one area where weve lacked in this series, hesaid. Asked whether hehad given, astern alk tothe playersin the dressing room, as reported by The Indian Express on Wednes- day, Gambhir first said these were just reports butwent on toadd that hehadan honest cconversationvith theteam, Those are just reports. Thatsnotthetruth,Andl dorit think need to answer or any reports to be honest he stated. Going onto admit that he had way, thinkyouve gottodoit Onthe field later the Indian teamscemed tobe preparingfor lifewithout RobitThefirst point ofinterestwas the slip cordon, theposition where Rohit usually places himselfatthe startof the game. The cordon had a new face-all-rounder Nitish Reddy. short whilelater, Gambhir went down to the arena, fist- bumped ShubmanGilland pat- ted him on his back. Gill then found Bumrah approaching hima shake ofhandsensued before Bumrah patted himon the arm. It did seem like the moment Gillwas possibly told that he would play, replacing Rohit in the top order.

97. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-04 172349.png
   Extracted Text: outlined through governmentnoti- fications. Officials suggest that these measures aim to safeguard approach. Thedraft mandatesthat signifi- cant data fiduciaries conduct and accountability. Continued on Page 10 After buoyant start to 2025, reality check for indices KISHOR KADAM Mumbai, January 3 AFTER RISING 2.3 in the first two days of the calendar year, investors resorted to profit-booking on Friday, leading toadecline of upto0.90in thebenchmark indices However, the indices managed to close the week with gains of up to 0.80, marking thesecond consecutive weeklyrise. The Sensex opened over 129 points higherbut slipped into neg- ative territoryand remained there throughoutthesession,endingthe day at 79,223.11, down 720.60 points, or 0.90. Similarly, the NSEs Nifty fell 183.90 poi 0.76, to closeat 24,004, benchmark indices had gained 0.47 and 1.83 on Wednesday and Thursday, respectively, driven by demand forauto,T,and finan- cialsector shares, The markets remainedvolatile throughout the week, with multi- ple factors influencing investor sentiment. Continued on Page 10 Swiggy, Zomato to retain 10 fee FOOD DELIVERY platforms Zomato and Swiggy are likely to continue charging customers the increased platform fee of 10 per order even after the festive season ends, sources, aware of the mattertold FE, reports Anees Hussain. The platformshad iised their fees to 10 in October 2024,mPAGE4 WEEKLY GAINS Sebi warning for JM Financial THE SECURITIES and Exchange Board of India Sebi has issued M Financial an administrative warning for regulatory non-compliance dur- ing te initial public offering IPO of its dient, Western Carrier India, reports AkshataGordle.Sharesof the investment bankingfirmlosed 2.3 lowerat 129.90 on Friday. mPAGES Top Sensex gainers west 919 oe t i iT Bajal Finance Tata Motors Indusind Bank between Dacember 27 and lanusry 5 Mcap gainloss in crore Dec 30 ec 50 96,156 beet  fesas Jano 248,952 voxs A 25. Jano2 p 2025 sano nO 49,216 942 GenAl intensifies pricing pressure THE RAPID adoption of GenAl is reshaping spending pattemsinthelT services industry, butthistechnolog- ical shiftis intensifying pricing pres sures for providers reports Padmini Dhruvaraj. Despite the growing demand for GenAl,cientsare increas- inglydemanding that efficiency gains bbe passedl on tothem.mPAce4 Social security framework for gig workers by early FY26 PRIYANSH VERMA New Delhi, January 3 THE GOVERNMENT IS likely to introduce a framework to provide social security coverage to gig and platform workers in the next fourto fivemonthsfficalsourcessaid The plan to roll out the benefits or the fast growing laboursegment byearly nextfiscalis despitethe fact thatthe implementation of the four labour codes, approved by Parliament in 20202021, is being delayed. As of nov, the design of the framework for gig workers social security is not final. Whether a schemeisintroducedto providesocial security to them, or some provisions of the Codeon Social Security CSS willbeinwoked...stobeseen, sada personawareof thedevelopment. However, the framework most likely would beintroducedbeforethe Inbourcodesareoffcially notified by the Central goverment, the person added, The government isaimingto provide such workers with health  lifeinsurance,accidentinsurance and pension coverage, According toNitiAayog.there were 7.7 miliongigandplatformworkersin 2020-21,whichareestimatedtoriseto 235million by2029-30. Thegoveramentismullingtopro- vide the gig and platform workersa unique identity like the Aadhaar, which would be accessible byall the companies, who hire them,namely Zomato, Swiggy, Zepto, Urban Com- panyeteTheuniqueidentitywillstore all the information of the workers, such as theirmonthly earings, past wworkrecords ec. Continued on Page 10 Re fall drives forward premium rates past March 2022 high ANUPREKSHAJAIN Mumbai, January 3 WITH THE RUPEE touching yet anotherlow of 85.81 dollar before Settling at 85.78 on Thursday, for- ward premiumrates haveincreased tomult-yearhighs. Driven by huge liquidity deficit in the banking sys- temandan increaseinhedgingbets by importers, the one-month dol- lasrupee forward premium rose to 3.30, the highest since March 2022.The one-year forward rate roseto 2.54 highest since Octo- ber 2022 The dollar rupee forward pre- mum is used by companies to make forexhedging dedsions Ahigherfor- ward premium indicates that the market expects WELSH herpes sein Mopuusweak hefuture RUPEEMAY. _Anychangeor GIVEALEG-UP inversion in the TOEXPORTS premium curve PAGES couldimpact the tenure of the hedgesand thus,a companys deci- sion on taking ahedge.Continuous intervention through buysell swaps have ed tothis inversion in the for- ward premium curve, said a forex trader with astate-owned bank Importers say that in the near- term, therupee may fall past 86S mark duetoa strongdolla, supported byhigh US Treasuryyields, and likely tariffpoiciesofthenewUSPresident, DonaldTrump sai forextrader. This haspromptedthemto increasehedg- ing bets on the dollarrupee, pushing thenear-term forwandrates upwards. At the same time, the Reserve Bank of India RBIhas been selling AT ANEW LOW Jan 2 close ato 85.76 rupee eel Send ea per aed ei cheer le 223 close 85.78 s pee mThe Reserve  mlmporters say Bank ofindia  inthenear RBI has been  term, the rupee selingdallarsin  may fall past the spotmarket  the 86 mark tosupportthe  duetoa rupee strong dollar dollarsin thespot market to suppor the rupee. This has drained out th rupeeliquiity from thebankingsys tem. inthe last few days,the ysten liquidity crossed the deficitof2lakt crore. In the day, the rupee touche all-time low of 85.818, before set ting at 85.78 against 85.7.6 Or Thursday.Although,themovementi therupeewasrangebounddueto th RBIsintervention but demand fron cil companies and importers led th rupee to touch anotherall-timelow. Continued on Page 10

98. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-04 172433.png
   Extracted Text: India looking for deep ties with Trump govt Goyal  MUKESH JAGOTA New Delhi, January 3 INDIA IS LOOKING forward toa deepand substantive engagement with the incoming Trumpadmin- istration that assumes officelater this month, commerce and indus- try minister Piyush Goyal said on Friday.  have had the privilege of workingwith thatadministration personally also. Everyone of our engagements over the years have only got better and better,he told reporters. As the time for the inaugura- tion of Trump draws near, the world is eagerly waiting for its moves on threats regarding import tariffs that have been dished out by US President-elect Donald Trump to its key trading partnersafter winningelectionsin November last year. On radar for higher duties are China, Canada, Mexico, European Union, members of BRICS as a whole. On some occasions, India hasbeensingled outby Trump for imposing higher tariffs on US imports. On Indias trade prospectsin the coming year, Goyal said both goods and services exports cumulatively will cross 800 billion this financial Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal let co-chaired a meeting with minister of state Jtin Prasada to discuss strategies for boosting exports year thatends on March 31 Given the current world situ- ation where world trade is con- tracting or under stress this growth willbe creditable In April-November, Indias cumulative exports stand at 536.2 billion While both services and goods exportshave expanded, the year hasalso seenrecord trade deficitsin merchandise trade. Imports are a sign of a grow- ing economy. It shows there has beenademand formachineryand equipment inputsand intermedi- ate products. It means many more opportu- nities for people tostartnewbusi- nessesin India and invest in india. Itshowsthatthere isademand for consumer goods which encour- ages people to invest in India.This ultimatelyis leading up to agreat growth story, Goyal said.

99. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-04 172649.png
   Extracted Text: Indias smartphone market to 7tElxsijoins Qualcomm for hit 50-bn milestone in 2025 futuremobility FE BUREAU TATA ELXSI PLANS to collaborate New Delhi, January 3 Hemet meraca with Qualcomm Technologies to SUUERNNSNEENNNREE  SST  develop and leveragevieual models THE COUNTRYS SMARTPHONE  mtheretail average  mThe premium  eaieireliiebetiay  of Snapdragon Digital Chassis solu- marketis expected to cross 50bil- selling price ASP is.  segment Pees tions for cloud-native application lion 84.3 lakh crore in value in ypectedtocross  over 30,000 JEP ESESSE ESSERE development. The partnership will 2025,according toCounterpoint the 300 mark PT othe shit towards focusonadvancingSoftware-Defined Research. around 25,700  exceed 20. USSRSSUUSINSUIGINNN  VehicioSDVtechnologiesandwillbe Thegrowthwillbedrivenbythe forthefirtime  marketshare in  abused demonstrated atthe Consumer Hlec- premiumisation trend, rise in inter- this year -  tronics ShowCES 2025.y est forhigher specification devices De ea eg As part of the collaboration, Tata and value-centric approach from  Pate 9 ehsiwilldevelop avirtualelectronic smartphone companies. In 2021, CICS TSIUCS TIN control unit ECU platform for the smartphone market value was cn automakers and Tier-1 suppliers. at 37.9 billion 23.25 lakh crore, Perce euisne This platform will utilise Snap- Further, theretailaverageselling . f PPatereiineesee dragon virtual system-on-chips price ASP of Indias smartphone Seer 9 VS0Cs to support the next genera- market is expected to cross the tion of mobility solutions acrosspas- 300 around 25,700 mark for senger,commercalandoff highway the irsttimein 2025. over30,000isprojectedtoexceed mium segment over 45,000, vehiclesegments Analysts said the market is 20marketsharein this year. analysts said. By reducing the dependency on evolving rapidly, with companies Apple is expected tosee strong __Intheaffordable premium cate-__hardwareavailability,theprojectaims focusing on premium launches to demand forits pro models, driven _gory30,000-45,000,brandssuchas to streamline product development strengthen brand equity,showease by local manufacturing and recent vivo, OPPO and OnePlusare attract- _ lifecycles facilitating fasterand more technological capabilities and price reductions across its iPhone _ingconsumersby offering advanced _ efficient delivery of advanced mobil- improve profitability. Brands like lineup. Samsungs value-focused camera systems and refined CMF _itysolutionstothemarket. AppleandSamsungareleadingthis _strategyis gaining traction, partic- _colour,materialand finish designs. Tata ElxsiS AVENIRSDV suiteof shift by offering competitive _ ularly with its lagship Series. According to Counterpoint, the  solutions,integratedwith Qualcomm options in the premium and ultra-__ OnePIus, with the launch of its _shifttowardspremiumisationisalso  Technologies Snapdragon Ride Flex premium segments. flagship OnePlus 13, isaimingto _ beingdriven byconsumersincreas- SoC, willbe showeasedat CES 2025 Thevefore.thepremiumsegment increaseitsshare in the ultra-pre- inglyoptingforofflinestores. FEBUREAU

100. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-04 172841.png
   Extracted Text: POLITBURO LAST MONTH EASED THE NATIONS MONETARY POLICY STANCE FOR THE FIRSTTIME IN 14 YEARS Chinas central bank likely to cut rates this year Yuan slips to near 14-month low REUTERS Beijing, nvary 3 CHINAS CENTRALBANK said it is likely to cut interest rates from the current level of 1.5 at an appro- priatetime in 2025, the Financial Times reported on Friday citing comments the bank made to the newspaper. The remarks by the Peoples Bank of China align with policy- makers commitment made last year towards creating a more mar- ket-driven interestrate curve.Ana- lystsanticipate it will make further changesthis year to ensurecredit demand is more responsive to monetary policy moves. the PBOC said that it would prioritise the role of interest rate adjustments and move away from quantitative objectives for loan growth, the FT reported, asit embarks on a programme of interest rate reform that govern- ment advisors have called an arduoustask POLICY SHIFT Pe iy Pal See cece Poe Prey Seal Bech Rete ielod whichit last cut road Eyes Proper Egecoie mPBOC said it would prioritise therole of  MiNi! interest rate adjustments The PBOC will pay moreatten- tionto the role of interestrate con- trol andimprove theformationand transmission of market-orientated interest rates the bank said. Chinas 10-year and 30-year treasury yields both hitrecord lows on Friday on expectations of fresh ee monetary easing. The economys main rate is its seven-day reverse repo rate, which it last cut from 1.7 to1.5 in ate September. The central banks comments underline a broader plan to over- haulits policyframeworktotransi- tion the worlds second-largest economy away from state-directed bank lending. Analysts say the role of capital markets in financing growth also requires deepstructural changesin theeconomy alongsideinterestrate reform. As part of that process, Chinas governing Politburo last month eased the nations monetary policy stance forthe first time in some 14 years to appropriately loose from prudent, a stance it adopted in 2010. During a high-level economic agenda-settingmeetingin Decem- ber, Chinas top leaders vowed to cut interest ratesin atimely man- nerand reducethe amount of cap- ital banks must hold in reserve, as, partofabroadereffort tospurlend- ing and investment in the ailing economy, the policy announcements comeas China braces formore trade tensions with the United States as DonaldTrumpretumstotheWhite House. REUTERS Hongkong, January 3 CHINAS YUAN HOVERED neara 14-monthlowagainsttheUS dollar on Friday heading for a fourth straight week of losses, as falling yieldsand domesticrate cutexpec ations continued to weigh on the currency. The spotyuan traded at 7.29 to the dollar by 0255 GMT after briefly weakening past the key 7.3 per dollar threshold on Thursday,a level not seen since November 2023. Ithit the key threshold again inmorning trade. That added to the currencys 2.8 drop in 2024, its third straight year of decline, asdomestic woes around a moribund peoperty sector, weak consumption, and falling bond yields drove capital flows out of the yuan to higher- yielding dollars, Wortiesabout the Chineseecon- omy carried into the newyear, with stocks plunging nearly 3 on Thursday, the first day of trading in 2025.

101. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-04 172950.png
   Extracted Text: Trump and crypto flip-flops Regulators must hold their ground, resisting the call of SRINATH SRIDHARAN Corporate advisor  independent directoron corporate boards X ssmumbai deregulation and ensuring cryptos integration into the financial system is guided by prudence, not populism DONALD TRUMP IS cryptos messiah- in-chief  conflict of interest aside, he has some sweat equity in anupcoming cryptoventuretoo, Hisnewfound cheerleading forcrypto isasbafiling asitislaughable just afew yyearsago,he dismissed cry ptocurrencies, asa scam andathreat to the dollar. This dramatic U-turn feelsmore likea social media post hastily deleted after realising its unintended implications. Muchlikeachild captivatedby anewtoy, will this crypto fascination fadeoncethe next shiny objectappears? Theironyhereisrich,Bitcoin, bom out ofa dream to eliminate middlemenand even governments control of finance, now finds itself embraced by the very intermediaries it sought to bypass. Wall Street, as the representative of all worlds financial, has smartly been not content wwithmakingfees off sellingstocks bonds, insurance, debt arrangements, and mutualfunds.lt hasnow turned its sights and political lobbying oncrypto..nits essence cryptoremainswhatt hasalways beenahigh-stakesgambledrivenbyretail sentiment, devoid of ntrinsicvalue,and producingno cash flow. Think oft this way when youinvest ina house,youre bettingon its ability to provide shelteror rental income. Whenyou investin stocks, yourebuyingashareinacompanysprof- its.Butwhen youbuycrypto,what exactly are you investing in? A future without bbanks?Autopiawhereeveryonetransacts inblockchain tokens? Oris it simply the hope that someoneelse will paymore for itthanyou did? Financial regulatorsacross the globe haveconsistentlyraisedalarms aboutits risks, Cryptos decentralised nature and opacity make it conducive for illicit activities ike money laundering, terror financing, and tax evasion. Yet, Trump has emboldened the industry to push for aregulatory free-for-all Consider the interconnectednessof globalmarkets.Inanerawhereabankfail- tureinSilicon Valley sendsripplesthrough European markets,adding unregulated banks to offer crypto custody services and required stricter accounting mea- sures for digital assets. Dismantling these safeguards may offera smoother ride in the short term, but at the cost of acatastrophicplunge. The stakes couldnt be higher for global banking regulatory standards. Frameworks like Basel III, designed to ensure theresilience of banks, will be stress-tested likeneverbefore if Trumps crypto agenda takes flight. Cryptos extreme pricevolatility,coupled with its speculative nature, could wreak havoc cyptoasetstothenixihike _____ on banks capital buffers potrngerosneonsnoul Gryptoslobbyits, 2d liu rato, The lering fire. Asingle collapse integration of such assets couldtriggeradominoefiect _Mboldened by its oue robust global stan- across the global finandal Trumps support, dardsriskscreatingregula- system underminingtrust are pushing for tory arbitrage, where bad and stability regulatory _-ctorsflockto jurisdictions Yet, Trumps return to Telibackee with the weakest rules power promises to acceler Adding to this circus is ate cryptos mainstream- avid Sacks, Irumpsnewly- ing. The industrys lobbyists, embold- ened by his support, are pushing for regulatory rollbacks that would make it easier for banks tointegrate cryptointo their services. Thisisnt about innova- tionorfinancial inclusion. Itsabout cre- ating a fertile ground for profiteering, regardless of the collateral damage. Ceyptoderegulation in theUSthreat- ens toundoyearsof progressin banking regulation. Cryptolobbyistsare pushing forthe rollback of crucial guidelines, including rules that made it costly for anointedcrypto-Al czar Aman whohas spent his career criticising tech regula- tion, Sacks seemsan odd choice,givenhis lack of expertise in either crypto orarti- ficial intelligence. Then again, rump has neverbeen oneto et qualificationsgetin the wayof appointments. Even after 15 years of existence, crypto still struggles to justify its place in the world. Ithas no social purpose, economic value, and track record of improving lives. The industrys relent- less marketing machine spins tales of overnight millionaires, preying on the fear of missing out to lure in unsus pecting retail investors. Meanwhile, the financial sector rakes in fees by ped. dling crypto products that are little more than sophisticated gambling tokens..f this house of cards collapses, the fallout could dwarf the global finan. cial crisis. And, as always, the common citizenwill bearthe brunt. Regulators must hold their ground, resisting the call of deregulation and ensuring that cryptos integration into thefinancial system is guided by pru. dence,not populism. To quote the Finan. cial Stability BoardThe absence of reg- ulation is not neutrality itisa licencefor instability Luckily, the Reserve Bankof India has been holding on to its firm views about crypto, But will the politica dispensation accommodate Trumps crypto tantrums, say via non-financial regulatory frameworks? Thecurrentcryptonarrativeis almost Dostoevskyan in its absurdity, tale of human greedand moralbankruptcydis guised as innovation, But unlike Dosto evskys characters, who grapple with guiltand redemption, the crypto indus- try and its political champions seem utterly devoid oft. fTrumpscryptoflip flop teaches usanything, its this when opportunismand populism collide, the result isa spectacle  entertaining, yes, butalso dangerously untethered from reality. Andashistoryhas shown, such spectacles rarely endwell,

102. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-04 173100.png
   Extracted Text:  YOUR QUERIES INCOME TAX Claim HRA, home loan relief if working in different cities  I NEERAJ AGARWALA e1stayon rentand have purchased flat inmyhometown.Cantclaim bothHRAandtaxdeductiononthe interest paid forthe homeloan? Saurabh Kumar Yes,you can claim both House RentaliowanceHRA exemption and tax deduction onhomeloan interest, provided theflat youpurchased isnot inthe city whereyouare currently residingand working andyouare currently esidingina rentedhouse inthe ctyof yourwork.  Mywife sold her flat this year in March for 1 croreand bought anotherflatworth 1.5 crorein May. As the sale and purchasefall intwofinancialyears,how should shefileherreturns? Prakash Singh The saleandpurchaseof properties falling in two different financialyears does notimpact the availabilityof capital gains exemption,as longas the conditions fordlaiming exemptions are satisfied.For AY2024-25,you shouldhavefiled the return reporting the saleoftheflatand calculatedthecapitalgains. Inthe same formyou should have claimed theexemption under Section 54 by mentioning the purchase of thenew flatin May. Theexemption under Section 54appliesirrespectiveof thefinancial year,aslongasthe reinvestment conditionsare met, andthe amountis reinvestedbefore thedue date offilingincome tax return forthe yearof sale. el purchaseda flatwhere the total salevaluementioned in agreement including the GSTs 82 lakh. But when lamremoving the GSTcom- ponent itistess than 50lakkh.Am liable to pay the 196 TDS ornot? Sudeep Kamar UnderSection 194-IAof the Income Tax Act tax ddeductedatsource TDSis tobededictedonthe higherof-The consideration fortransfer asmentioned inthe agreementorthestamp dutyvalueof theproperty. Theterm consideration for uansferreferstotheagreed sale valueof theproperty.exciuding taxes ike GST However charges suchas clubmembership fees,car parking fees elecriityorwater faclity charges maintenance fes, advance fees orothersimilar charges mustbe included. the total sale value considerations per thesaleagreement orstampduty value whicheveris highee excliding GSTexceeds 50lakh, TDsat 1owill apply. The writeris partner, Nangia  Co. Send yourqueries to fepersonalfinance expressindia.com

103. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-04 173207.png
   Extracted Text: India raises dam plan with China Urges China to ensure interests of downstream states SHUBHAJIT ROY NEW DELHI, JANUARY DAYS AFTER BEING cleared the construction of the worlds largest damon theBrahmapu- tra river in Tibet close to the Indianborder raising concerns in lower riparian states India and Bangladesh, Delhisaid Fri- day ithasconveyeditsconcerns to the Chinese side over the megahydel project. Tndia has urged China to ensure that the interests of downstream states of the Brahmaputma are notharmed. byactivitiesinupstream areas, Delhi has also lodged a protest with Beijing through diplomatic channels over Chinas establishment of two naw counties in its Hotan Pre- fecture since parts of jurisdic tion ofthese countiesfallin the Union Territory of Ladakh, in theAksai Chinarea, Sources said that India was not informed by the Chinese side about the construction of the Brahmaputradam project, Boats sail through the river Brahmaputra in Guwahati which is the convention betweenthetwocountriesand learnt ofit from media reports  the projects to cost an esti mated 137 billion. Indian officials then reached out to their Chinese counterparts about sharing information in advance, and consulting India and Bangladesh, the downstream countries. On Friday, responding to questions, Randhir fiswal, spokesperson for the ministry of external affairs, said, We have seen the information released by Xinhua on 25 December 2024 regarding a hydropower project on the Yarlung Tsangpo river in the Tibet autonomous region of China, Asalowerriparianstate with established user rights to the waters of the river,wehave consistently expressed, through expertlevel as well as diplomaticchannels,our views and concerns to the Chinese side over mega projects on rivers in their territory. These have been reiterated, along withtheneed fortransparency and consultation with down- streamcountties, following the latest report The Chinese sidehas been urged to ensure that the inter- ests of downstream states of the Brahmaputra are not harmed by activities in upstream areas. We will con- tinue to monitorand take nec- essary measures to protect our interests,he said. The Chinese government approved the construction ofa hydropower project in the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangboriver,the Tibetan name forthe Brahmaputra,according toanofficial statement quoted by state-run Xinhua news agency on December 26. The dam is to be built ata hhuge gorgein the Himalayan reaches where the Brahmapu- trarivermakesahuge U-turn to flow into Arunachal Pradesh andthen to Bangladesh, The totalinvestment in the damcould exceed one trillion yuan 137 billion, which would dwarf any other single infrastructure project on the planet including Chinas own Three Gorges Dam,regardedas the largest in the world, the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post reported, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Mao Ning had played down apprehensions about the massive project locatedin theecologicalyfrag- ile Himalayan region, along a tectonicplate boundary where earthquakes occur frequently. Maosaid Chinahad cartied out in-depth studies for decades andtooksafeguardmeasures The projec will not nega tivelyaffectthelowerreaches? she said, referring to concerns in India and Bangladesh.

104. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-04 173239.png
   Extracted Text: PM targets Kejriwal I built homes, not Sheesh Mahal DEVANSH MITTAL  NIRBHAY THAKUR, New Delhi, January 3 OPENINGTHE BUPScampaign in Delhifor the Assembly elec- tions likely next month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday targeted Arvind Kejriwal, chief of the ruling AAP, saying he could have built a Sheesh Mahal forhimselfbutchoseto give people, especiallythepoor, ahomeofttheirown. Sheesh Mahal is the BIPs description of Keriwalsofficial residence when he was chief minister. Speaking in Ashok Vihar, where he inaugurated infra- structure projects that will cast an estimated 4,500 crore, he accused the AAP of being involvedinscamsacrosssectors, from education tohealth, Responding to the PMs remarks, Kejriwal struck back Someonewhohimselflivesina 2,700-crore house, whose PM Modi during a visit to the newly constructed flats forthe dwellers of Jhuggi hopri clustersin New Delhion Friday travel expenditure exceeds 88,400 corewhohimself wears suitsworthover 1Olakh, should nottalkabout Sheesh Mahal In his speech, Modi said the AAP, which used Anna Hazare as its face to come to power, had become an aapda disas ter forthepeopleof Delhi.Yeh kattarbeimaan log...ktochori upar se seena zori These staunchly corrupt people... They steal and then defend themselves brazenly... Dillike log keh rahe hain, aapda ki nahin sahenge, badal ke rahenge The people of Delhi aresaying theywill nottolerate thisdisaster,and will usher in change he said.

105. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-04 173315.png
   Extracted Text: US H-1B visa debate intensifies ahead of Trumps inauguration Laur aa Washington, tanary 3 THREE WEEKS AHEAD of Trane siwugaestonn se 11y20,the debate on orlgn got yorker vous orig Shlledproesionals, tho 18, has intensified whichbas ter ally created dvisionsinboth the Denocrate andthe Repu Teanpartes. indlansaethemain benef bringin the best ofthe talent find brains from across the worl Hghly sled profesion strom ind wallsway with the overwhelming number of Helin  whieh is Congres Sonal mandned650000every yearaned another 20000 fo Thorewhorcevedhighered alo fom the US President lect Donat Trump who wibeswornlnas thes? Pestontofthe US at the US Capt haseome outa Spportf the iso ato fof i cose confidant Tek, owner lon Miskandenrepre- euriekRamanvamy both of whomharbeen askedtohesd thee created Department fof Govemment EfBency DoGEveatways liked viens, Lhave always been In Seo then Taste nyethenTump ld hese ono ovetheckend Tealway elt we have to have themor competent peo. ple in our county. We need Them We need smart people cominginto US Were gongto Hvejobslikewevenever had foe Trump tld epotersat aNawYearsFvepurtyhostal by himat Mara Lago Both Musk nd Ramaswamy have aed hat HPs ate seen sttactthe best of the talent a. the UStallsshoreinmany oe specaliod ls They have been joined by Indlan Amesican Democratic lewakers iedudieg Ro anna Raj Kshnamoor Come out in support of 18 ira aera sudden backlash against as soon a5 Trump ve always liked the visas. We need com- ppetent people com- ing into our country, we needa lot of peo- WHO SAID WHAT Brn Presa rey en the brightest, but rather to Ey Pee ing American  rs cs Seen ti generation engi peng eens Peereren Nd ine creas part ofit caer nny rope H-1B benefits both India, US after Trump, Musk backing THE MOVEMENTOF sili pofesbnakisanimpotant prtoflndUS tesandtene Etsboth unt New Deh sido Friday amiddebte overt LBvinconwhichPres iswteletDonarumpand his backer Elon Mask orn mented een nda knoe, forksmassve oct of Tp fexsonals, many of whom work acioss the word, Late last month, Trump said hefuly eked theHIB Frogammefororign wot oppose by some of his supporter Muskthebi lonaize CEO of Tela and Spuorkvoweltogotorvarte ddenditindasnisuchvsse provided mutualbenat Ove countries Bave 2 strong and owlng cco nome and technologie! fessionals ig an important component Indias foreiga tminttry spokesperson Rapdhit isa, said when sedabout the Bvisnd ussions inthe US. India-US economic tes benef slo fom the esi cal expertse provided by Skiled professionals, with both sdes leveraging thelr Strengths ant competitive omic tes which are to ox rutuslbenetIndasesved About 7616 of the 265,777 WbwnrtsuedbytheUSin he fal yarendel Soper be2095, strengthens under rump, Jabwalsald nang atlas fordgaministerand foreign seeretarytecendiy vied the Us and hed meetings with Meamterthebukefsudi partnerhipandwhhinthis vaeWelookfawadiofur Tounptanstion te. easisucd by theUS Ebi.moblieyt kil pro ther deepening India US ex REUTERS appointedSrramKrishnanas becaueofthescactyothighly our wodkfore-The H-1Bpro- portion af the MAGA cow MiicnicrlokeyAdviterAL stiledAmertanenghccand gramme aac the bestand sated stacking Kishnan on Serta AdiocinAL stidAmerianengacenand gramme tract testand rtd tacking chan 27 came ftom the supporters of Trump who argu that hss cating aay the. be of Americans. oth Mask and Ramaswamy immediately swaighed nandsipporte the vis OnThurdayintu Beanie Sanders averted tat the two clove confidant of Trumparewrong Mskandanuiberofether ihonaetecn dimmers Segued that this eel pr gammeb ial oureconony The main funcion ofthe HaBesaprgrammeandether guestworker iatves snot hirethebestandthebghtet Dutsathetorepace goat pa ing American jobs with low wage indentured serants fom Toad The cheaper the our heyhire thermore mangy the bases, Sanders His own party colleague Congressman Raja Kash namoorth disagreed on Mon dayeTRenumberane compet tiveadvantage America has is theworldandatengehens that Advantage as wealso investi Amercan works ThetOLACNN fas be supported Musk and Ramaswamy inthedebate Te reazonm inAmesca along with so many crtial proplewhobuitSpacX Tes, End hundreds ofother comps tsthetinedeAmerastoars Ie because of 18. Take aig Stepback iilgotoweronths iestethe eso which yoean fot. possbly comprehend? Musthadsaidinaposton Xas expanded to the debate on Wibwise Theeeason tp tech fms cften hie forign born and ft ganerationengineenovet hate Amereanstnthecnse of an inmate amerian IQ deficit key part oftcomes down tocar, Tough questions demand tough answers and iF were rally aries about Rog fhe problem, we have t2 ontont the TRUTH argued Ramasamy. en

106. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 092824.png
   Extracted Text: Not top, the 2025 auto sector race hot at middle level VIKRAM CHAUDHARY New Delhi, January 4 THE PASSENGER VEHICLE market is gearing up fora defining year in 2025,.withtwo intense battles shap- ing the sectorslandscape.One will see Toyota and Kia locking horns for the fifth spot among carmakers, while the otherwillinvolve Mahindra and Tata Motorsinano-holds-barred racefor thethird position Theserival- ries are set to buildon the upheavals of 2024, when Toyota overtook Kia, and Mahindra caught upwith long- NECK PIERS  em caughtup SOMMMNN with rivalTata Perel Motors for 3rdspot Kia Indiato  Pecos fifth-largest timerival Tata Motors. Lastyear, Toyota Kisloskar Motor edged past Kia India to claim the Unitsales mm 2025 mm 2024 fifth-largest carmaker position, a feat driven by robust growth and strategic collaborations. Toyotas sales surged to 299,989 units in 2024, a 36 jump over the 220,725 unitssoldin 202. accord ing to Siam data. This growth enabled Toyota to outpace Kia, whose sales stagnated at 255,038 units, almost similar to its 2023 performance of 255,000 units. Toyotassuccess story wasfuelled bynewproductlaunches and itscol- laboration with Maruti Suzuki which supplies fourmodelstoToyotaunder a cross-badging agreement. These rebadged modelsGlanza, Urban Cruiser Hyryder, Rumion, and Urban Cruiser Taisorconstituted nearly 50 of Tayotas sales. Toyota also expanded its appeal with innovative offerings like the Urban Cruiser Taisor and Camry Hybrid, alongside limited editions ofits popularmod- elssuch asthe Innova Hycross and Fortuner Leader Edition. Incontrast,Kiasnewofferingsin 2024leanedtowardnichesegments, including the ultra-premium EV9 priced at 1.3 cromeand the Carni- valLimousine6lakhWhilethese products bolstered its brand image, therlimited appeal didnt translate into significant sales volume. Continued on Page2

107. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 092851.png
   Extracted Text: TWO-YEAR COMPLIANCE TIME FOR NEW LAW Sectoral needs to drive data localisation Govt  Restrictions to be applied only where needed Eise eau JATIN GROVER New Delhi, January  THE GOVERNMENTS APPROACH. minister Ashwini Vaishnaw told PE Saturday, are imposed only Vaishnaw said where necessary, a balanced electronics and IT  framework is todata localisationwillbe guided bysectoral requirements, ensuring restrictions on being put in place to safeguard crit- ical personal data while avoiding disruption toindustries. Agovernment-appointed com- mittee will act as a central body to evaluateanylocalisationneedsraised by sectoral ministries. This commit eewill consult industrystakeholders before making any recommenda- tions.The intent is not to disrupt cross-border data flows but to address specific sectoral require- ments wherelocalisation isnecessary forcitizen safetyVaishnaw said, Continued on Page 2 Compliance challenges P3 PM Narendra Modi  FM Nirmala sitharaman at Grameen Bharat Mahotsav PM Need 5-6 more cooperatives like Amul FE BUREAU New Delhi, January  Modi emphasised that the govern- ment is moving forward with the mantra of national development through rural development. Modi also stressed upon the need to create more farmer pro- ducerorganisations FPOs. PM NARENDRA MODI on Saturday said there isa need to set up five-six morecooperativeslikeAmulto ensure better pricesfor farmers produce. Inaugurating the Grameen Bharat Mahotsav 2025 in Delhi, Continued onPage2 HDFC Bank deposits up 15.8 in Q3 SACHIN KUMAR Mumbai, January 4 HDFC BANK POSTED higher deposit growth than advances in the third quarter, as per provi- sional business updates. Deposits at the countrys largest private lender surged 15.8 to 25.63 lakh crore as of December 31, 2024, from 22.14 lakh crore a yearago, registering a growth of 2.596 at aver 25 lakh crore as of September 30, 2024. Gross advances of the bank rose 3 to 25.42 lakh croreasof December 31, 2024, from 24.69 lakh croreayearago, Continued on Page2

108. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 092918.png
   Extracted Text:  DENSE FOG HITS OPERATIONS 19 flights diverted, more than 400 delayed at Delhi airport PRESS TRUST OF INDIA New Delhi, January 4 DELHI AIRPORT ON Saturday saw 19 flight diversions, many cancellations and over 400 flight delays as low visibility conditions due to dense fog impacted operations forthesec- ond straight day. An official said 19 flights were diverted at the airport between 12.15amand1.30am due to reduced visibility. Of them, 13 were domestic, four intemational and two non- scheduled flights. More than 45 flights were cancelled due to bad weather conditionsat Delhi as wellasat the destination airports, the official said As perinformation availableonflighttrackingweb- site Flightradar24.com, over 400 flights were delayed at the Delhiairport. The countrys largestairline IndiGo had temporarily put arvalsand departures on hold attheairportearlyin the morn- ing While landing and takeofis continueat DelhiAirport flights that are not CAT Ill compliant maygetaffected,Passengersare requested to contact theairline Flights are seen grounded at the Jayprakash Narayan International Airport amid delay due to fog, in Patna, on Saturday concerned for updated flight information. Any inconve- nience causedis deeply regret- tedtheDelhilnternationalAir- port LtdDIALsaidin aposton Xat6.56am. CAT facilityallowsaireraft tooperatein low-visibility con- ditions. Indira Gandhi Intema- tional Airport GIA in the national capitals operated by DIAL. 6ETravelAdvisory DeparturesandartivalsatDe- hiAirport are currently on hold duetoreducedvisbilityIndiGo said inaposton Xat1.05 amon Saturday. Air India said in an update on X at 1.16 am that poor visibility due to dense fogwasimpacting flight opera- tions in Delhi and parts of northern India, A thick blanket of fog had enveloped Delhi on Friday as well, delaying more than 400 flights. In an update on X at 10.58am Indio said dense fog continued to affect visibility in Delhi, Chandigarh, Amritsar, Srinagar,Guwahati, and Patna, even during daytime. We assure you that our teamsare working diligently to assist all impacted customers, ensuring yourjoumey resumes as soon as the weather improvesitsaidinanotherpost at Lam IGIA handlesaround 1,300 flight movements daily The Northern Railway also said atotalof59trainswererunning late byup to sixhhoursand22 by aroundeight hours. Ina related development, air quality in the national capital vas in the very poor category, wwithan Air Quality Index AQ reading of 380 at 9am, accord- ing to CentralPollution Control Boarddata. An AI between zeroand 50 isconsidered good 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101and 200mod- erate 201 and 300poor, 301 and 400very poor,and40i and 500severeTheminimumtem- perature settled at 7.8degrees Celsius, anotch abovenormal TheMetoffice has predicted dense to very dense fog during the day.

109. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 093026.png
   Extracted Text:  SHEESH MAHAL ROW CAG report flags doubtful consultants, estimate revision Cost up thrice to 33 crore, reveals, audit trail RITU SARIN JATINANAND New Dai Jaary ALLHESE CONTRIBUTED tothe exalstonsfomtareanacenst thepemiso 6 Feta dfteandresereet tench preliminaryetinates of 791 Cro wasvardcdat 2.62 crore 2030 andwhen vas competed ty the Pi rks Depunent PW 2022 he talendvas33e6 com. Teseare lant tbe among they fdings of sept OF then Comptroter and Audor Geneal Grah Gunde Mama The nian Express as etn tha Mum soe of on is rapor ua wreck before he Gnitadotceon Nv 20, 2004. Fagng ts cmign day br theupeoming Ue de tons, PM Nena Modi sanmedRefvalyinghecrld harebulta Shea he BPs name fr this hose as 3 Jmol what cals ANP co ration butndensure! ha cre zens had got houses in the st lO ears Weck aferhe war etaseontalln thir casein september-nwhiche wat amen by Befement Kealtadwatedtepremics inOcteber 2024aferepping down asbahi ton sepenbet Ti theaaPhasconsstnysed thatthe popes ot eas pena ast andastheC MS rene leat oth. cine tue The CXC opt ead totvea secon oi tne by PWD rete othe emoelingoFesong om molar ground Sorand sore The ep wich veo trea tohavehighghed dbf selection of cna tan, fequet revision fet fates aid fg beyond appro to ichie Kems of The CMs residence t 6, Flag StaffRoad, New Deh WHERE THE MONEY WAS SPENT The cost including installation charges ofsome ofthe mast expensive itemsattheresidence TVconsole Minibar unit shaped sofa Treadmill. gym equipment Kitchen equipment Sikearpet Roundenngtable Upholiteredbed Faurleather cladding Burmateak and veneer aking omamnental miror 20,34,200 40,082 640,608 852,155 59,08, 846 627,690 480,082 599,099 545,878 239,208 igherspcifcations Undediningiucs maida the esr tendrng the proetthecMreport ents five noted that tenders were invtedinOxtber2090 roe contactors of whom ony tee ubited thee ide and work Siac awandostothelowe er From among deen stof probable dep PWD, splints de CAG ts learnt has mentioned that he malnngfourconactors ad Schools development parkat hattheyddthavetheespea fence of digs workin IP Sreearoacdaimed PWD, Akay concn UheCACS ndings tha ofthe o3.ccaom aftoulexpenes, UIRS crores been spent on vhsetheauditornasdecbadse TRemsol supederspedfcaton ait antiqueand omamntal tena ubichverealleseetedy the PAD se extn heme The AG Heportisaidtohaeanne eee ve tof 198 ca ext compensate a0 cu eect components Therepotlslerat oaow how, fom September 2020 e202 versed tina trereprovied te ih showing therearsninceweinsarpe of enal wos C507 eA ese scans andy. 4827 fit and marlewer 19aralabowtheted rowsional estate gwen For fourth year in a row, PSU tober 202. The aud eget haepratsectonsontea cnenaeesommale forthe np offerte. chit allt iatelremnay staffiockandcampotice The Mutesbo salting ttn Sionuntf 87 coment pet tn Heaghtciog nary stone irre and gm. tment atthe nen andthe items were ined as extra iteninatonfsartionat Staff lock Camp Of Stat FRageoa Chines. The CAG ao sd to have conplaial tout wat aed the Dali Gavemments la ance to sbi the soit Papert hart at Inthesbenee fsuppteuches sbagethcalans a pne be of mati sped the Suasorand he testi thesewearseenitne serial at month the Deb Velansbinate seth Inestgtng ep begat. tinrdatedtthernonation a Flag Saf Road soon ar the tua fst faced fo May 3025 ake he PWD probe fc suet a eporton hoor chorion proud te Tish tem? bund athe pop ny Whe th Cetra Burs oF Tnestgatonseereapcin inary engin the tern Scuba 2005 es ake reonleedbyDebiL GES nson December 62034 ara compan Bled by Lender of Oppstinintie Deke Snd BP MLA Vener Gpain November aa year Ingest 2024 Cental Ie Ws Department PWD upended te engine fr har allege oe in eglies lstetswadatheredence twice Ades 9 wks Ine When ake abou he It and Bindings an AAP Spokesperson cle ser STonary tact by the BP days ert lectne wt fhy vet tenant ie renertedKepheals remanis fom yesterday It Soumisodebe aboot Stein tier bythe WD rom apaeyehose Tenderivesin32,700er ose, Atovelsinan 8400crainea wonton

110. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 093104.png
   Extracted Text: DPIIT ties up with Stride Ventures to help startups FE BUREAU New Delhi, January 4 THE DEPARTMENT FOR pro- motion ofindustryandinternal radeDPIT haspartneredwith venture debt firm Stride Ven- tures to provide financial sup- portand strategic guidanceto startupsin thecountry. Stride Ventures will focus on identifying startupswith high growth potential and offering them funding, mar- ket access and policy support. This initiative aims to assist Indian startups in expanding globallywhile also supporting international startups enter ing the Indian market,astate- ment by the ministry of com- merceand industry sad. This endeavour aligns with theGovemmentof indiasMake in India and Make forthe World strategies targetingsectorssuch as manufacturing, consumer, 2B and cleantech said Sanjiv, joint secretary, Startup India, As part ofthis partnership, Stride Ventures will curatespecalised programsandcollaborateonini- tiatives like the Bharat Grand Challenge to foster entrepre- neurship,innovationandinvest- ment, Sanjiv said This partnership, coupled with our billion-dollar com- mitmenttonurturingstartups, reaffirms our resolve to strengthen startup ecosystem. We aim to unlock immense potential and delivertransfor- mative impact on a global scale, said Ishpreet Singh Gandhi, founderand manag- ing partner of Stride Ventures. NEW DATA PROTECTION RULES Parental consent seen as a challenge for Big Tech FEBUREAU New Delhi, January 4 THE RULES TO implement the Digital Personal Data Protec- tion DPDP Act may see com- pliance challenges for social media intermediaries as they will have to come up with a mechanism to manage parental consent before onboarding children below 18 years ofageon the platform. Experts saytherequirement of verification of identities of parents as well wll create an additional compliance burden onsuch companiesas they wll haveto comeup with asystem. The rules on how toobtain verifiable parental consent are bound to create significant compliance challenges. Thisis because data fiduciaries will havetomaintain differentcon- sent processes for adults, minors and persons with dis- abilities who have lawful guardians, said Shahana Chat- terj,partneratShardulAmarc- hand Mangaldas  Co, The draft rules released by the government on Friday for publicconsultation statethata data fiduciary shall adopt appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure that verifiable consent of theparentis obtained before the processing ofany personal data f achild Inaddition, parents iden- tityand age willalsohave tobe validated and verified through a voluntarily-pro- vvidedidentity proof issued by an entity entrusted by law or NEW NORMS, NEW COMPLICATIONS m Social media have to come up witha mechanism to manage parental consent for children aged below 18 jequirement of verification of identities ofparents will create an additional compliance burden, say experts se er investments in tech, Cee eres pres rsnecr hy Sener the government. Supratim Chakraborty,part- ner, Khaitan  Co,said,Ensur- ingthat theconsenting individ- ualisalegallyidentifiable adult addsa critical layer of account- ability, reflecting the govern- ments commitment to safe- guard the vulnerable groups According to Chakraborty, for businesses, the shift will demand investmentsin tech- nology, operational diligence, and collaboration with trusted verification entities like Dit locker service providers. Experts said the new legal mandate will requirea signifi- cant overhaul of existing data handling practices, including theintegration of identity veri fication systems to authent catethe identityand ageof par- ents or lawful guardians providing consent. BS a New legal mandate will require a significant overhaul of existing data handling practices Experts also flagged concerns over data localisation and oversight on cross-border data sharing While compliance will bea constraint legal experts say the rulesalso dont give any laity onhowchildren will be identi- fied for the purpose of seeking verifiable parental consent fromtheirparentsguardians. It seems the approach might rely on self-declaration byusersallowing themto ini catewhetherthey areminorsor adults. This could potentially lead to broader processing of parental or guardian data, hichraises interesting consid. erations regarding thescaleand scopeofsuch data collection said Shreya Suri, partner at IndusLaw. There remainssome ambi guityaround how self declara- tionwouldapply in caseswhere individuals may not be able to disclose their status indepen- dently she sad.

111. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 093319.png
   Extracted Text: Family settlement Kirloskar firms challenge Sebi PRESS TRUST OF INDIA New Delhi, January  FOUR KIRLOSKAR COMPA- NIESon Saturday saidthey have filedan appeal before the Secu- rities Appellate Tribunal SAT challenging the Securities and Exchange Board of India Sebi letterasking them to disclose the deed of family settlement that was signed by members of theKirloskarfamilyon Septem- ber 11,2009. Inajoint statement, the Kir- loskar companiesKirloskar Ferrous Industries KFIL, Kir loskarIndustriesKIL,Kirloskar Pneumatic, Kirloskar Oil Enginessaid they have filed the appealbefore SAT challeng- ing the Sebiletter dated Decem- ber 30, 2024, wherein the mar- ket regulator advised them to disclosethe Deed of FamilySet- tlement DFS. On December 31, 2024, these companies stated that they were preparing to legally challenge the letterby Sebi. Themarketswatchdoginits letterstated that since the DFS is subsisting in nature, indi- rectly creates a restriction on the listed entities managedpromoted by the parties to such DFS, warrants disclosure, regardless of whether such listed entity isa party totheagreement or not tunder relevant provisions and advised the company to dis- close DFS in terms of LODR Regulations. Kirloskarsiblings,with San- jay Kirloskar Brothers chair- Kirloskar siblings have been in a feud since 2016 over the DFS for the assets of the more than 130-year-old Kirloskar group  manandmanagingdirectoron one sideandAtuland Rahulon the other, have been in afeud since 2016 over the DFS for the assets of the more than 130- year-old Kirloskargroup. Rahul Kirfoskaristheexecu- tivechairmanof KirloskarPneu- matic and Atul Kirloskaris the executive chairman of Kirloskar Oil Engines KOEL Sanjay Kir- loskarhad filed a complaint for non-disclosureofthe DIS. KOEL on September 11, 2023, responded to the National Stock ExchangeNSE that itwas nothing but one more of hisrepeated attempts to try and somehow cause KOEL to be bound by the DFS for his own ulterior motives andin furtherance of his per- sonal vendetta with the other family members, which is now publicrecord

112. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 093350.png
   Extracted Text: GOVT PLANS TO BEARTRANSPORTATION, STORAGE COST Address price gap between farmers, consumers Chouhan SANDIP DAS New Delhi, January 4 AGRICULTURE MINISTER SHIVRAJ Singh Chouhan on Saturday urged states to pro- vide suggestions for bridging the gap between consumer prices and the remuneration received by farmers for agri- cultural commodities. The farmer gets a lower price forhis produce includ- ing vegetables, fruits and other cropsat the place of, production, but when it reaches big cities, it becomes very costly for consumers. How canwereduce this differ- ence? All of us should ponder this, Chouhan said while addressing a pre-budget meeting with state agriculture ministers, Tolowerthecostofagricul- tural production, Chouhan announced that the govern- ment will bear the cost of transportationandstoragefor crops like onions, tomatoes and potatoes when procured directly fromfarmers byagen- cies such as Nafed. If we want to increase farmers income, we need to lookat ways to reduce the cost of cultivation,he said. A recent study by the Reserve Bank of India RBI and ICRIER had revealed that FOR FARMERS WELFARE x Findings ofa study by RBI had stated that wholesalers, retailers are pocketing almost Ky 230fwhat consumers pay to buy vegetables and fruits from the market Pen agriculture and allied sectoris eee coer 3.5-4 in FY25, Pere STL wholesalers andretailers are pocketing nearly two-thirds of the amount that the con- sumers pay for vegetables and fruits in the market. The minister also invited states to suggest improve- ments or modifications to ongoing central schemes in thefarm sector. Healso invited state ministers to meet him Delhi to discuss state-spe- If thereis any suggestion or amendment required in relation tothebudget orongo- ing schemes, provide neces- sary feedback Chouban said Chouhan highlighted the According to the govt, under PM-Kisan scheme for consumers. more than fsbeenteniereico _Allof us should the bank accounts of ponder this 110 million farmers in 18 installments expected growthof theagricul- ture and allied sector at 3,5496 in 2024-25, signifi- cant increase from 1.4 in FY24, Regarding the progress of flagship programs, he stated that under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi PM-Kisan scheme, launched in February 2019, more than 3.46 lakh crore has been transferred to the bank accounts of 110 million farm- ersin 18 installments. Under this direct cash transfer scheme, farmers receive 6,000 annually in three four-monthly install- SHIVRAJ SINGH CHOUHAN, UNION AGRICULTURE MINISTER Farmer gets a lower price for his produce at the place of production, but when it reaches cities, it becomes costly ments.Healsonotedthatpro- posals worth 51,700 crore under the Agri Infrastructure Fund Alf havebeenapproved for over 85,000 projects since its launch fouryears ago. Onthesix-pointstrategy to boost the agriculture sector, Chouhan said that steps are being taken to boost produc- tivity. through releasing improved seeds varieties from Indian Council forAgricultural Research besides initiative measures like promotion of micro irrigation, farm mecha- nisation,useof technology and introduction of new methods ofagriculture.

113. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 093608.png
   Extracted Text:  EXCERPTS THE GUJARATIS 4 Portrait ofa Community by Salil Tripathi Bijness is bijness Entrepreneurial spirit is inherent in Gujaratis, and in these excerpts from Salil Tripathis new book, he writes how paiso bole chhe for the community only a small part of our identity. Most Gujaratisare shopkeepers not entzepre- neurs or industrialists Andweare trans actional,in businessand in society? The shopkeeper, Meghani said, cal- culates, Heisclose tothe market, andhe understands the customer Sizing up the castomer is the key. If the customer seems slippery, the shopkeeper will insistoncashandnotoffer credit There is the famous song of the renowned musician Avinash Vyas,Charar charar maru chakdol chale My ferris wheel turns which has this important verse, aaje rokia ne udhaar kale cash today, credit tomorrow. Inthe remotest corners ofthe world, youd find a Gujarati traders shop,sell- ingturmerie and cumin,chocolatesand The Gujara A Portrait of a Community Salil Tripathi Aleph Book Company Pp 744, 21,499 milk, frozen fish, and toilet paper rolls, The shop becomes theone-stopalmanac of the area, and the shopkeeper is the search engine for the community from the time before Google. He puts up cus- tomers notices landlords who want to rentoutaroom,newarrivalswhowant to buyausedwashingmachine,car owners who want to sell their car,even parents seeking a spouse for their daughter. He may not charge for that service he wll makeup forit by making thosepeoplehis lifelong customers. Women from the neighbourhood bring homemade thep- las sealed in plastic bags, and the shop- Keeper sells them to unmarried men working in other shops anddesperatefor home-cooked meals. Hed pocket athird of the price as his profit. He will stock Indian newspapers and magazines,rent out cassettes and videotapes of Bolly- woodfilms,and lookthe other waywhen teenagers are sheepishly buying ciga- rettes or condoms.He wouldnt squeal, because if he did, theyd stop coming. He knows that he cant always get whathewants,and sohenegotiates. Giv- ing does not mean giving in or surren- dering forthereare no zero-sum games, Businessisa sport,notwar.Compromise isimportant.Edward Simpson,an expert on Gujarati society and cultureat SOAS University in London, told methat one traitcommonacross Gujaraticommuni- ties is the ability to compromise. We stoop to conquer. The vegetarian teetotaller Gujarati shopkeeper hasno qualms about selling canned meat and alcohol in his shop the fundamentalist Hindu Gujarati trader may anonymously curse Muslims on social media, but he will have a cordial business relationship witha Sunni Arab businessman in Dubai,whodhaveno idea what the Gujarati has been saying online. Wecompartmentalise. Life is lfe,but business isbusiness. Early in 2024, the Hurun list of worlds billionaires came out, in which of the 3,279 billionaires, 271 were Indian, Mumbai became Asia billion- aire capital, and Mukesh Ambani, the wealthiest Gujarati, became the richest Asian, at 115 billion. Gautam Adani, also Gujarati at 86 billion, was the fif- teenth richest in the world. Five of the richest ten Indians in the Forbes list of 2023 are Gujarati,and of the top 100, and nineteen more Gujaratis add to a total of twenty-four in the top 100. Other similar lists vary because amily- owned businesseshave fiendishly com- plicated cross-holding patterns. Butthe larger point remains validGujaratis form adisproportionately large part of Indias wealthiest. Wewanttobuildourfortune,and not help others building their fortunes, a point many Gujaratis in business told me.You have to seize the opportunity andtakeyourdestiny inyourhandsRus- sell Mehta, managing director of Rosy Blue, the leading diamond exporter, said overa delicious vegetarian thali at his officein thediamondboursein Mumbai. You identify the opportunity that others havent seen headded. Sometimes itis hiding in plain sight. Renowned author Harish Damodaran told a journalistin 2014 how Gautam dani wentinto ports when nobody was looking at the sector, since everyone believed that ports have strategic significance and sothegovern- ment imply wont permit private sector tohavea majority stake. Excerpted with permission from Aleph Book Company

114. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 093636.png
   Extracted Text: The original environmentalists Ramachandra Guha ties his protagonists by acommon thread of human-nature relationships and their writings AMITABHA BHATTACHARYA. HILEREADING THISbook,  wasfrequentlyinterrupted byold memories andasso- ciations. I remember hav- ing written in Bangla for my school maga- zine how nature was integral toTagores poetry, how during my district training at Srikakulam! hadspentamonthina tribal area named Elwinpeta and how lhhad grown up reading columnsof M Krishnan in The Statesman. knew about Radhaka- mal Mukherjee san important academic from Lucknow, of Fatrick Geddesasthe biographerofhisscientist friend Jagadish Chandra Bose, about KM Munshi as a noted author who founded the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan,and of C Kumarappa and Madeleine Mirabehn as Gandhijis devotedassociates.Ihardlyknewanything about the remarkable couple Albertand Gabrielle Howard, except byname. Ramachandra Guhals genius liesindis- coveringthecommonthread that tied the ten characters, with different levels of renown, ina manner that isboth exhaus- tive and absorbing. Mixing description with analysis, and covering around cen- turyffom Rabindranath to Krishnan Guha unites them in that they all addressed human-nature rdationships, and they did soin writing Admittedly, Gubhas books that selec individuals and Naina uu Speaking with Nature The Origins of Indian Environmentalism Ramachandra Guha HarperCollins Pp 440, 2799 their contribution to public causes whether in shaping modem India or through writingand actingon ecological issueshavesometimesbeen criticised by casual readers forhavingleftoutpersonal- ities of their choice. Many such critiques emanate fromaninadequateunderstand- ing ofthehistorical contextin whichGuha posits such men and women. The titleofthe chapters indicate why Guha selected the individuals and in what specific area their contribution turned out to be pioneering and unique. Keeping the averagereaders patience in mind, Guha uses hispen tobriefly sketch the defining moments of one lifeand how the causes they espousedthrough words andaction marked theorigins of Indian environmentalism, Francis Bacons powerful idea that human beingsshould conquernatureand bydominating itcan improve theirliving KM Munshi started Vana Mahotsava in 1950, when he was Union minister, to increase forest cover. Since then, it has become an annual affair conditions influenced generationsin the West and soften inked with colonialism. Colonial rule constituted an ecological watershed since it brought with itnew technologies ofcontrolling manipulating, reshaping and destroying nature Guha accepts john McNeills definition ofenvi- ronmentalism as the view that humankind ought toseek peaceful coex- istence with, rather than mastery of, nature, and argues convincingly that erwironmentalism asl defineitwasmade possibleonly afterthesubcontinentcame under the controlof British imperialists and perhaps arose because of colonial exploitation. His identification ofthe pro- tagonistshastobeseen inthisperspective. Though each essay is majestic in its sweep, none is bereft of complexity, well researched details and nuances. For instance Tagore lifelong engagement with the beauty and variety of natureis well Anown asformany otherwriters, and his concerns about environmental destruction were also not altogether uniqueevenatthat time.But Guhanotices that Tagore gave this critique of industri- alismand imperialism a distinctive eco- logical twistand explains, in amplemea- sure, why Rabindranath Tagore was an unacknowledged founder of the modern Indian environmental movement. To make the dry and barren land of Santi- niketan dotted with trees and groves, Tagore introduced the Briksharopan tree- planting ceremonyinuiy1928,tobeheld every year, putting his heart and soul behind it.I transformed everything. Much later in independent India, KM Munshi as the minister in charge of forestry, introduced Vana Mahotsava grandiestivaloftheforestJonapan-India scale, invoking the imageries from Hindu religious texts, goingto the extent of say-

115. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 094015.png
   Extracted Text: Welcome, the Generation Beta What will the new generation, born on Jan 1, open its eyes to? NaNUnR ane frntionwastom called Generation eta, which il inckade ese born Betveenthe eas 2025 Each generation bas had diferent senses than the younger. The Few Resch Canerbasteen studying themilenmagencratin forme tha deca measuring public atindes on fey tener and doamenting Aiterences in those andes across Aemogayhiegroups wwtbom fom1922-1927 tofost War 1928-1945 Boomers 1 1946 1958 to Boomersil 19551964 the dest of the generation aveays have ferent sons ante young. Ganx 1965-1980, Milesial1981 1996 and Gen 2 1997-2012 have tradyseanandeparencaladifenst But Generation etaleapopultion lifes cheies with rfc nel eer tegrated nt almost ech and rerysegmentofife Te Beales ll Eeauepatove Generation iho teent now te most lta con ected eoertonctetideenetet Asperaclre ache denorapher sad earet MarkheCrinde, ener Son eta by 2035 wile p10 he gbtal population, they wilbe te hidrenof younger le SadalderGenzsand ay ilivetosce he 22nd eentry. MeCTindle has co buthoreda ok tied Gerona, Hoe bor between 2010 and 2024, ierheprntsxtew ph the tem Teennedjealoboutundetandingerd mpemringthi generasonthe sent ancof techno the future of work tadtherconsimerhatsandtierole Se lnflienen. in his online bog Mecrinde aetna the generation Bifbytheewentstctinaopeyandcul furl sto the time Generation Beta spresmteapivtalchapern orev Ingwoitl a whowil Generation Beta bean wat factor lope tea eabaurs adapts? Sine Genertion etl borin analitegateden they willveln a Gata generated word  ei even, warpees,bealtheare and enteral ene Withsrerabe el toch, nda imc aspet of bfgthoesocinerctonsandicoming wwlabwayabetcrdtven Tady Bets illatomatealy become aparoGam Thing ave powered Alcat fete IntheGangleGaminiappalos erst Iivecomverstonsiihtespp cbr EAT gana telecom gam O2 new weapon obatphneseammes. Cencation Beta wil verge tech nology abatoa fr education connec Itsalsoachllenge ortesekdstocon hou understand the potent et emings oftechnoi aenswllhave Sitedtivelidnghaierenteand fathisilbethecneseth thee en erations Ontheotherhandhedigtalwialor coming from Gen 2 parents wil flay help Bets to nargate and Fedefine pris Test re forget that climate change andsuandltyarsomect the press inglstesofour ties the generaicn, willbebornntonner oimesslts Soidapidubnaton Asal. o-eetence wil help them le and apt new duanges more easy and ety The iain be expected end Aevaybyactjwtdaenninngdea-cut ialshutimpuementngthemina more fencrate and organised manner. For instance eqsalty and eco conscoe neselbe pata dapat oo eetherbtlnnalorlir Gen 2 Thy ilasowidelyacceptacolaborativeand emunty bed interaction and wil fares adopt innovation and cre suey freomior Thi ares yl sleep themdsterminemresntons Sniface more dallenge etaon theoherhand wile gn ration bom and owing upwithsodal ted, 20 is Iikelyt shape thor Paoatlsigh famstut Wewdlscethe fexteangeotbathdatsateralphaand Beta to Ceneravon Gamma h 2040 305 Generation Detaf.2095- 2063, sndsoon,

116. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 094101.png
   Extracted Text: Race for humanoids OpenAlis back in the robotics arena, and the world awaits the results HEADQUARTERED SAN Francisco inthe United tates artificial mel gence research ogantstion OpenAL fasconsistenty stayed in the news Inthepastfewyean Belt coming out with the internets much-loved ChatGPT in. 2022, the whole Investors board ye CEO Sam Atma dramain1033,crnowthenews that init be getting back into the hhumanold obotsspace Wesay get ting back Because forthe longest time Openal aid havea dedicated obotcs team, which it had to shut flown three yearsago, due toinsut Fetenttaining dats checompanys co-founder Wojciech Zaremba, who dso used tohead the team, revealed ina potest interiow atthetimeia an interesting tur of events, on December24 last year, Te informa on aUS bass tech business pub Heation, quoted two people with direct owledgeon the subjectsay lig that Opens hasbeen exploing bulldinga humanoid rbot. Ahumanold robot has physical features similartohumane in sele tal form  arms, legs, head, ete, ases, ranging from simple xtcinedy coxaplen oo. Inthe meantime With Opendl returning othe ter itimight beleakingatexcing developments coming sp. but the company wast never teal toot from the robotics space Bven after shutting down the robotiedvision, Openal docs seem to have been luvestedinthefleld, quitter February this year OpenAl startup Fund along with Mierosoft, Bezos Expeditions, Parlay Venture Cp SLARK Invest ntl Capital, Nvidi, Sod Align Ventures imested in Fig tireAl, US-based startup that has been tying toring a general pur pose humanetd if Teter Welinder,VPofproductand partnershipsat OpenAl hadtoldthe media, Weve alvaye planned to path with Figure to explore what FRemanod robot cam achieve when powered by highly capable mul odalmodels The company also invested in 1X Technologies, an Al robotics company. producing humanoids fapableof human-like movements and behaviours according to its Wrest to help them integrate GPT Al models with obotie systems In November this year, Opendl invested in another Al and robot eseentred startup called Phys Salintligence Not ust tha, reportedly athe DLN Dy ROBOTS, Pee beginning of 2024, Openal als was looking to hire people who spe Clised in robotics, suggesting tha Ie might be looking to rebuld it Endless possibilities Recently, Humanoid robots have bbeenemployedto west aleapabli in workspaces, warehouses, othe physleal spaces et-at the moment the big players in the humanok botes Held are Boston Dynamics Tesla Optimus, Sanctuary Al Xiaoms! CyberOne, and_ Agility Robotics among others With Open re-entering the eld the posites sreendleso wnat the fre developments col Took like, However its noteworthy that The Informationsrepor ida conclusively say whethe robotics sa high priority Openatornoe Nevertheless rth the company recent Inuncher sich 3603 Al mod 1s the developers might be on patho create robots that couldper Bim complicated tasks, respond humans, initiate problem solving be deployed in differs Industries,consierng thatthe com pays atest AL models have bee feveloped with avaned reasoning capabilites Going ahead, the bots it powered wth features tha e adapeable and the robots mad Ssccessble could revolutionise

117. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 094137.png
   Extracted Text: Small language models, an accelerated rivalry between two bot behemoths, a godfathers warning, a digital guide for Mahakumbh.. heres the latest buzz from the world of artificial intelligence The next big thing Weall knowabout large language models LLMs that are facilitating computersto generate and process big data, enabling themto respond tonaturallanguageques- tions. But now, small language models SLMs,whichhavethe capabilitytogener- ate human-like language and are trained on datasets that are limited, are also becomingall therage.tisunderstood that they canbetrainedandusedeasiyzbesides being more cost-effective and using less computational power, making themideal forspecifictasks. Big tech giants Microsoft, Google, Meta, Amazon and others are investing billions in developing general- purpose LLMs to handle avariety of tasks, but they might not be able to be cus- tomised for certain needs. They may requirea smaller version of generative Al. Infosys chief technology officer Mohammed Rafe Tarafdarwas recently quoted as saying that several small lan- guagemodelsfor ndia-specificneedshave already been launched and witha growing developerbase,a lot more GenAl applica tions will be implemented for Indianand_ By Rewati Karan global markets. Last year saw several launches of lightweight models suchas Microsofts Phi family of SLMs, Googles Gemma and a smaller variant of Metas Lama model. Microsofts Sundar Srini- vvasan wasalso quotedassaying that while LLMs have pushed theboundariesofaccu- racy across various Al tasks throughout 2024, SLMshave driven massadoption and true democratisation of Al. Industry experts arecertainlylookingatSLMsasthe nextbigthinginAL Agodfathers warning Geoffrey Hinton, a British-Canadian computer scientist who isreferred toas the godfather of Al, has raised analarm. that thetechnologymay lend to human extinction in the next 30years witha 10- 208 chance of that happening. Hinton vas awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics arlierin2024forhiscontrbutionstoa Inan interview to BBC Radio4s Today programme hewas quotedas saying that veveneverhad to deal with thingsmore intelligent than ourselves before dis- caussinghis evolving views on Alspoten- tin risks, Hesays thatthe likelihood of AL causing harm has risen in recent times. and how manyexamplesdoyouknow of amoreintalligent thing being controlled byaless intelligentthing? Thereare very fewexamples.Theresamotherandbaty. Evolution put alot of workinto allowing the babytocontrolthemother but thats abouttheoniyexample Iknowohehad said conceding on a previous account thathewished hed thoughtabout safety earlier - alluding to his apprehension about the potential forAlto ramp up the rms race. Hinton has been speaking about the potential dangers of unregu lated Al development after he resigned from Googlein2023.He madeheadlines when heleft Googleandraised alarms of the repercussions ofmachinessuch as that could one day outsmart people, adding hatthereisalsothe possibilty of somebad actorsexplotingl fordestruc- tive purposes. Gemini vs OpenAl The rivalry between Googles Gemini and Microsoft backed Open Al has been esca- lating According toreports,Googleissetto build businessand focus on Gemini Al for ccustomersin 2025, amidst rivalry with Openal.As reportedits contractors are usingan internalplatfom forcomparing Geminis outputs to those of other Almodelsandarerely- ing on Claude, a familyoflargelan- guage models developed by Anthropic, to Ne ae improvetheresponsesprovidedbyitsown Al model. TechCrunch reported that Google contractors are given responses generated by Gemini and Claude in Fesponsetoauserpromptwhich theyhave toratewithin 30 minutes on factors such. as truthfulness anderbosity Meanwhile, Googlerecently unveiled the Gemini2.0 Flash experimental model in competition with OpenAl. In its blog, Google said that it is their most capablemodelyetWithnew advancesin multimodality  like nativeimageand audio output  and native tool use, it will enableusto buildnewAlagentsthatbring Se y ey   usdloser to ourvision ofa universal assis tant! Google sid Additionally,itlaunched anawfeature calledDeep Researchiywhich is capable of using advanced reasoning and long context capabilities to act as researchassistant,exploring complextop- icsand compiling reports, available for Geminis advanced subscribers. Meanwhile, OpenAl, too, has unveiled new 03 and 03 mini models, which will be launched later this year. The new models are quite advanced versions and much better than its predecessors in several performance benchmarks, as perreports, AlinMahakumbh AsAlisincreasingly becoming pervasive, why should Mahakumbhbeleftbehind? In line with the advancing tech, the Uttar Pradesh govemment has planned to use Al-enabled cameras, radio frequency identification RFID wristbands and mobile app tracking to track the head- count of pilgrims at the upcoming reli- sgiouscarnival Startingin Prayagrajon Jan- uary 13, approximately 450 million devotees are likely to attend Mahakumbh, which is recognised by UNESCO as an Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. The government will also launch a dedi- cated websiteand app,anAl-poweredchat- ot in11 languages, QR code-based passes forpeople and vehicles, and a multilingual digitallost-and found centreforvisitors.

118. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 094213.png
   Extracted Text: Kissa and kahani Amid countless avenues of entertainment that are just a click away, some festivals are attempting to keep the tradition of oral storytelling alive GARIMA SADHWANI FTHERES ONE thing that global- isation has tried to very covertly take away from us, its our awn traditions, the ones that we grew up with and held close to our hearts for many many ages. Until one day, we woke up and never indulged in them again. One such tradition that hasbeen at therisk ofbeinglost forquite some time now isoralstorytelling. Remember the tales yourgrandmotherusedtotellyou while tucking you inbed,themagicthat mushairas held, the Ramayana and Mahabharata tales recited in your neighbourhoods, and even the extem- pore competitions in school whereyou. invariably fumbled or laughed? Inatimewhencountlessavenuesof entertainment are just a click away, preserving the OGs can be an arduous task, one that might feel too tedious. But there are some people who have held onto them firmly, to keep intact the glory of an almost pious art formone that myths and mytholo- gies hugely relied on, Take for instance, story- telling festivalsKathaalok held in Dethi, Gaatha Mum- bai International Storytelling Festival, Kathakar scheduled to be held in the national capital from January 31-February 2, UdaipurTales tobe held in its namesake Rajasthani city from January 10-12, and Spoken Fest, among others. Held across regions, they have been wonderful avenues to bring patrons of the art formtogether. Says Sushmita Singha co-founderat UdaipurTales Weare creating a space where people can pause, connect, and truly live the magic of storytelling The bond between the storyteller and the listener is something no digital medium can replicate,and that iswhat draws people to festivals Kathakarwill be hostingartists from Poland, UK, Australia, Mongolia and Estonia, among other countries while and mainstream musicians from the Hindi film industry. Prarthana Gahilote, festival director of Kathakar International Storytellers Festival, whichis in its 14th year and settohost its 18th edition, says they also curate special sessions for their festival to bring in schoolchildren, Roshan Abbas, the founder of Kom- mune and festival director of Spoken Fest, which was held in Shillong on December 6 last monthandis gearing up forits Mumbai edition on February 1-2, tells FE that their programming, too, is intentionally structured to appeal to peopleacrassage groups. Theyhold pan- ls showcasing contemporary story- telling, celebrating classical art forms, conversationswithwritersand directors, and performanceshoweases. But its not easy to organise these festivals year after year. Gahilote of Kathakar says, People across all age groups are now glued to their gadgets. Itis difficult to hold theirattention for more thana few minutes Singha of Udaipur Talesagrees.She laments that with people so immersed in the digital world, they rarely get the chance to experience the emotional connection oflistening toastoryin per- son Andwhen theydo,moreoften than not, they tend to capture it virtually rather than be present. All said  done Bringing any crowd, especially young people, to festivals isa task in itself.So the organisersare now offer- ing them a plethora of formats to draw them in and help them discover new talent. At Udaipur Tales, for instance, folk artists, qawwals, dastangos, and even storytellers from Latin America and Francewillbe performing. However, Abbas does acknowledge, Our digital presence has been instru- mentalin engaging youngeraudiences. With 82 of our audience between ages 18 and 35 years, Spoken Fest invitesa lotof mindful millennialsand GenZseekingauthenticexperiences Singha, too, mentions that the nate in bringing in people fromall age groups to thedifferent eventsandpan- cls while also organising some sessions for children, Accumulating funds to organise these festivals is a big hurdle too. Rachna Gahilote Bisht, Kathakars fes- tival organiser, says finding funds isa cycle you could get stuck in. To bring people tothe festival,youhavetohosta magnitude of international performers the production and management costs of which area burden to handle, and if you dont have a specialised lineup, the crowdswont come. With Kathakar travelling to Delhi, Jodhpur, Chennai and Shimla for its upcomingedition, money becomesan even bigger concern. Fortunately, says, Bisht, Since 2013,we have been part- neringwith the Union ministry of cul- ture, and for the past two editions, DelhiTourism hasbeen supporting us aswell Walking the talk But beyondtheseannualevents,the attempt to keep going at oral story- telling remains. Kathakars organisers hold sessions for children in hospitals, schools, and faith-based organisations. With collaboration with NGOs such as Nivesh, thefestival hasalsobeensetting up public libraries toinculcatea habit ofreadinginchildren Whats also interesting is that fes- tivals dont justhelp people engage in anart form they look up to, they also help create future avenues for the artistes themselves. Says Abbas, Weve witnessed some remarkable journeysfrom Mohammad Mun- em, the phenomenal singer from Kashmir who credits Spoken as the beginning of his new life, to Srushti Tawades evolution asa rapper, and Hussain Haidry finding his broader audience. Even established artistes like Kausar Munir have used our plat- form to showcase different facets of theirartistry That said, Abbas does note that the Spoken Fest team is exploring an expansion into schools, to help build

119. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 094238.png
   Extracted Text: SCREEN TIME Release  January 7 WHENA DOUBLE MURDERin Linkoping, Swe- den,was finally solved after 16years, it wasa genealogist who made the breakthrough,a first in Europe during that time. The Breakthrough is a fictional toryabout theunexpectedhero,an unlikely collaboration,and the hunt fora killer. Butitisalso astoryabout how an unsolved crimeatfects society andwhathappens topeo- plewhoare left withoutanswers to both who?and why? ey Netflix Releases January 7 MOST90S KIDS WiLLrememberthe chants from days spent homesick from school brows- ing television landing on the wild, often contro- versialjerry Springer Show.Hostedbythelate former Cincinnati mayor andlocal newsanchor Jerry Springer, the daytimetalkshowran for 27 seasons.TThe two-part documentaryseries cexplorestheshowsorigins andmeteoricrise. Your entertainment bucket list for this week Theatres Releases January 10 LAWMAN BIG NICK OBRIEN gets embroiledin thetreacherous and unpredictableworld of diamondthievesas he pursues careercriminal Donnie Wilson to Europe.The action crime drama film isa direct sequel to the 2018 film Den of Thievesandstars Gerard Butler, OShea Jackson jrand MeadowWilliams,reprising theirroles from the frst film. Theatres Releases January 10 INTHE 1830S, estate agent Thomas Hutter trav- elstolransylvaniafora fatefulmeetingwith Count Orlok.a prospective lient.Inhis absence, Hutters newbride Ellen isleft under thecare of theirfriends, Friedrich and Anna Harding Plagued by homificvisionsand an increasing sense of dread, Ellen soon encoun- tersan evil forcethats far beyond her contro The gothichorrorfilm isa remake ofthe 1922 silent film Nosferatu, Netflix Releases January 10 THE FIRST-OF-TS-KIND prison drama offers a thrilling exploration of themorally charged world of siaslargest prison, Tihar,throughthe eyes of rookiejailer Sunil KumarGupta,ashe takesonsomeof Indiasmost notoriousoffend- ers.Zahan Kapoormakeshisseriesdebutas Sunil Kumar Gupta, joined by atalented ensem- ble including Rahul Bhat,Paramvir Singh Cheema Anurag Thakurand Sidhant Gupta, ach playing pivotal roles in thisgritty tale.

120. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 094306.png
   Extracted Text: First-class upgra Airlines are offering more ways than ever to get a taste of the champagne skies, but how do you get past the curtain, and when is it worth the cost? DEBRA KAMIN VISIONS OF CHAMPAGNE and lie-flat seats danced in my head when Azores Airlines accepted my 500-euro bid to upgrade my husband and metobusiness class during our kid-free vacation this past August. But the realitywas far less cushy Our seats reclined only a few .ches more than regular coach seats. There was no screen for TV or movies. Weateexactly the samemealtheyserved attheback of theplane.Andthat bubbly? Abust. There are more of us cabin dimbers than ever, andmanyof usmakethesame rookie mistake I did, said Anthony Berk- ich, thefounder of theluxury New York- based travel agency Inspired Citizen. Access to first and business class, once almost exdusively reserved for big spendersorasa perk forfrequentfliers,is now open toa growing number of trav- cllers willing to bid foran upgrade,spend loyalty points orshellut extra cash. Two decadesago, Delta Air Lines typ- ically filled much of its first-class cabin with high-status frequentfliers.Butnow, more than 70 of seats are taken by eager customers who have paid for the privilegeof sittingup front,both through paidupgradesandthepurchase ofa full- pricefare, according to Glen Hauenstein, the president of Delta. Airlines are responding tothis hungerby expanding first-class and business-class cabins  which in turn creates even more oppor- tunities forupgrades. But choose wisely Not all premium, cabinspamperthe same,andif you dont have the facts, you absolutely can be robbed, Berklich said. Here are some tips for making your lie-flat dreams come true. Research the routes The quality  and extravagance  of your first-class experience is going to depend on where youre flying to and from. Thats because theres actually two typesoffirstclasssaid Brian Kelly,founder ofthe Points Guy, a website dedicated to maximisingairlineandcredit-cardloyalty programmes. fyoure flying within the United States yourealmost definitely get- ting domestic first class product that more closelyresemblessomeintemational businessclassorpremiumeconomy. In otherwords, didyou book first class on Delta from Kennedy Airport to Hous- ton? You might geta meal with linen, a bit more legroomand a cocktail before take- offbutdontexpectto beblown away. First classon Air France from Paris to Kennedy, however, comeswith chauffeurservice to theairport,aconciergetohandleyourlug _gage,amenities like pajamasand Sisley toi letries,andyes,champagne On carriers like Etihad Airways, Sin- gapore Airlines and Emirates first-class ticket can unlock three-room suites, showersand unlimited caviar. Book in the next lowest class Beingbumped up from seat 47B to Ais next to impossible said Berklich, because airlines allowupgradesone tier atatime. So set yourself up for success by first booking in business class if you want to. makeit tofirstclass,orin premium econ- omy if youwant tomove to business. That willbe much lessexpensive,and then youcan.utilisecredit card points or miles to bridge the gap, Berklich said. Combine cash and credit card points Points, miles and dollars can be com- bined to getinto first class,as long as you usetherighttools.Pointsfromeredit cards canbe transferredto airlinemileage programmes, often at aone-to- one ratio. You can combine those miles and points to booka first-class awardticket. Websites like Pointme, Roametravel and Pointhound can help you search fora flight route and see which airline programmes will give you the best deal if you transfer, while Points Path, a free browser extension, will show youaward pricing alongside cash pricing when you search fora ticket in Google flights. Cred Check the seat map Before yousplurge,alwayspeekat theseat- ingchartforyour aircraft.On someairlines, including Lufthansa, EmiratesandAmer- ican, you canbook frst class and stillend upwitha neighbour directly next to you. You canhaveawildly different experience depending on the plane youre on, Kelly said. Ese Coy oN Pray Pr Rear rola des How to score a sweeter seat The type of planewillbe listed in your ticket confirmation, and a quick Google search of that plane type and the airline name will reveal a seat map. Reddit threads and forumsalso offer plenty of tipsabout both first-class and business-classcabins OnEmirates Airbus 4380s, forexample,travellerssay the win dow seats in business dass behind the bulkhead are the quietest inUnitedsPolarisbusiness-class abi on the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, travellers say seats 9A and 9L have the largest footwells, making them attractive for tall passen gers seeking extra legroom. Bepatient, but ready to pounce How much it costs to upgrade, and when those prices change, depends ona lotroute demand, even howmuch people have historicallybeen willing to pay. So is it better to upgrade when you book orwait until the day of yourflight? Theres nohardandfastrule,Kllysai. Instead, checkin on yourairlineappevery few days to see ifcostshave budged. And when they do, be prepared tojump at the offer -and to be spoiled for every future flight. You cant unsee what youve seen when you get to fly in the front of the planeKelly said. NYT

121. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 094337.png
   Extracted Text: savoured premium Ibrico pork loin with fieryPadrn peppersand fermentedblack beans, watching Chinese families chat at nearby tables, realised something funda- mental had shifted inhow we experience foodthrough travel We can now observe food cultures developin realtime, shaped by migration and internet connectivity. The old model of chasing cultural cachet by travelling to specific destinations for authentic local cuisine is fading fast, worn down by streaming food documentaries, algo- rithm-driven Instagram recommenda- tions that expose everyhidden gemand the democratisation of travel through budget flights and Airbnbs. With global foods more accessible than ever, the real cutting edge of culinary exploration lies notin destination travelling butin thenext wave of third-culture cuisines at theintersectionsof tradition, immigration and diaspora. Food tourism as weve known it has bbecomeavictimofitsown success.Youno longer need to vist Paris for macarons from Ladurewhenyou can findthemat shops in major UScities orhave them delivered to yourhome via Goldbelly, a service that specialises in iconic restaurant dishesand regional specialties. Even Tokyos Tsukifi market exper fence has gone globalThechefs at Masa in New York and Sushi Zo in Los Angeleshavetold me that thesame fish being auc- tioned in the famous bazaar arrives daily in their restaurants. The obscure treasures in backalleys are nowbookmarked on TikTok with Uber dropping tourstsat their doorstep. Patrons study menus beforegoingtorestaurants,theyknowthe chefsstory,andtheyarriveatalreadyrated secretspotsthrough geotagging. But heres where it gets interesting Whatwerewitnessingisntjustthededine oftraditionalfoodtoutism its thebirthof something farmorefascinating. Take Chila in Madrid, The storefront could have been plucked straight from Hunansspice-loving heartland, it serves Traditional food tourism is dead. Something ean. is emerging Cuisines available at hotspots ike Copenhagen top are now familar food in neighbourhoods even, thanks to phenomena like migration, the internet Al and travel as a result of which our plates are seeing inspiration and influence from around the world as both a cul turllife- line for Chinese expatriates inSpainandas an introduction to regional Chinese cooking for curious Madiilefios. Diners there can washdowntheirmealswithsangriaorbai- jiu from Guizhou  a perfect blend of Spanish and Chinesedrinking traditions. Orconsiderastapleof Germancuisine. You dont need to travel to Germany for Oktoberfest and bratwurst anymore you can get that in Cincinnati at the giant Zinzinnati festival or at the Wurstfest in New Braunfels, Texas. But what you will find in Germany ishow the culinary land- scape has been transformed by the nearly threemiillion Turks both immigrantsand members ofthe diaspora who have been developing their own food identity there since the 1960s. In Lima,chifa Chinese Peruvian and Nikkei Japanese Peruvian dishes are redefining Peruvian cuisine to reflect 150-year history of Asian immigration, While tourists flock to the latest New Nordichot spotsin Copenhagen, theresan emerging African diaspora cuisine in Stockholm, whererestaurants like Jebena serve injera. These immigrant-owned establishments are quietly reshaping Nordic cuisine in ways that could make Noma  the revolutionary restaurant in Denmark that put foraging and fer- mentationat the heart offine dining  seemtraditional In Toronto,WestIndian- inspired inno- vations are producing completely new flavour profiles. n London, Nigerian suya the spicy, skewered street meat known forits distinct blend of ground peanuts and spices  is being reimagined in ways that could influence the next generation of British cuisine. New York offers What was once celebrated asa mosaic of distinct ethnic enclaves hasbecomea laboratory forthe future of global cuisine. Yes, you can still line up at Katzs Deli or _gaba bagelat uss  Daughter, aclearwindowintothisphe- but the real culinary excite- nomenon. The city nowhas  LS amen happening in anetwork ofinternational  food markets offering immediate access to world-classingredients andauthenticdishes  such asthe finest Ibrico ham at Mercado, fresh pasta at Eataly, a selection of pre- mium gochugaru at H-Mart marketsand thevast Indian grocery  at Patel Brothersin Jack- sonHeights.  places like Tatiana and Department of Culure, JP inece chefs with West Affican roots are reimagining their cui- Sine through a fne- dining Tens. These arent just fusion gmnt adaptations theye entiely new caltralexpressons, Oneexatingaspectof this evolution is that is impossible to experience i through deliveryappsorsocial media.You cant truly understand how immigrant communities are reshaping French iden- titywithoutwalking through Pariss 13th Arrondissement, hometothecitysChina- town anda large Asian community. You cant grasp Singapores culinary innova- tion byordering froma ghostkitchen. The most innovative Italian dish might come froma chefin Tokyo who never set foot in Italybut understandsthe essence of the cuisine through a globallens.A pop-up in Toronto might be defining the future of Mexican street food byincorporating tech- niques and ingredients that would be unthinkableinOaxaca. Theworldsnext great cuisineisnthid- den in some undiscovered corner of the globe. Its being created right now, in the spaceswherecultures,traditionsandtech- nologiesmingleThatswherethe eal food adventurebegins. NYT

122. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 094953.png
   Extracted Text: Border-Gavaskar Trophy As Bumrah leaves, captain Kohli calls the shots Kohli took charge after Bumrah left bowling due to spasm SRIRAM VEERA Sydney, January VIRATKOHLIS FIRST act of the day stemmed from forgetful- ness, He wentand stood at sec- ondslip hiscustomaryposttion when Rohit Sharma tenantsthe first slipposition. KL Rahul ges- ured to Kohli, who smiled, and went and stood in the frst slip. Thatwastheonlylapseas Kohli wasactivelyinvolvedin everylit- tle move through Australias batting innings. Hislastactof thedaytoowas from memory, albeit bad mus- cle memory. He was livid with himself afterstabbingataback oflength kicker from Scott Boland, edging ittoslips.Aday that hadstarted brightly ended withhim cursing himself on his waybacktothedressing room, Not only after the exit of Jasprit Bumrah, who left after bowingjustone overafterlunch for an injury thats not been madeofficialyetbuteven while Indias premier bowler was still onthe field, Kohli took charge. Hehaddonethattoanextentat the Perth Test as well when Bumrah wasthe captain, taking care of the field placings but here hewasa lot moreanimat- edlyinvolved in the process. Kohli was buzzing all aver the place- here, there, every- where. When Sam Konstas was onstrikeforthe 11thover, Kohli Kohli bats during play on the 2nd day of the fifth cricket Test between India and Australia x called Nitish Kumar from third mantoget backtoslips.Konstas took the bait, lapped Bumrahto theexactspotvacated,and Kobli pushed him back. In the next over, when Siraj took out Kon- stas with anaway-shaper that was taken in the gully by Yashasvi aiswal,Koblisetoffon arunto try tochase down Siraj As the bowler slowed down, looking and screamingin joy at thecrowd, Kohli too would have alook atthe crowd, and thump his chest andalsothump Siraj. Bumtah took himself off afterthis, and Siraj bowled one more,his seventh, when Kohli got into theactagain, Near the end of that Siraj over, Kohli ges- tured to jasprit Bumrahtobring himself on to bowl. Even as Bumrah acknowledged him witha mised right hand, Kohli poundedan imaginaryballonto theturf justin caseBumrahdid- nthear him.At the end ofthat over, Kohli ranto Siraj hishand overthebowlersshoulders ashe spoke to him almostall theway to fine-leg, and gestured to Bumahon hiswaybackagain to bowlAnd Bumrah did replace Siraj next over. At one point, he even ges tured to Jasprit Bumrah, who had finished his first spall, to bring himself on to bowl Kohli ran to thebowler Mohammad. Sirajatthe end of that over, put, hishandoverSirajsshouldersas he spoke to him almost all the way tofine-leg,and gesturedto Bumrahon hiswaybackagain to bowl And Bumrah did replace Siraj next over. He kept talkingand moving his fielders after lunch after Bumrahsexit. Thehandswould wave a fielder would be moved toleftor right,or closer. Hekept givingathumbs-upsignalfrom the slip to Prasidh Krishna, whenever a good line-and- length ball arrived. Krishnahad perhaps been a bit nervy ini- tially, and things could have gone pear-shaped, especially after Bumrahs departure, but Koblikepttalking andgesturing tohim. Slowly, Prasidh settled, and when he got Websters wicket with a kicker outside off, Kohli was very animated, run- ning to high-fivehim.Hewould alsodothesametoNitish Reddy, signalling him to bowl in th channel outside off, draw baci the length or gesture with his wrists to whip the ball down. And Australia keptlosing wick tts as Kohli orchestrated th fidd and the bowlings h walked back to the dressin room, Rohit Sharmawas stand ingattheentrancewith asmile Awhile eatter, during und break Rohithad given an inter viewtoStarSportswherehewa asked if any youngster in th team was ready for captainc yet.They are new boys. knov they should be given responsi bility. But let them earnit. Let them play some hard-fought cricket forthe next few years whateveriti.Let them eam it Rohit said. Aftera while, Koh would emerge padded up, and sit on a char, just outside the dressing wom, next  themasseur. For 3.4 overs, the masseu massaged hisright arm- mov ing from the fingers to the toy and shoulder and neck ani coming down againto finger At the end, Kohli stood up smiled, and had a laugh and chatted with Abhishek Nayar. A double strike would ge him to go out to bat, and hi strode outwith his bat held o1 his right shoulder. He went straighttoShubman Gill tohav achat. Butitwould end short after when Boland produces almost the same bal that had dismissed him in the firs innings. Kobli would put hi head down and scream, wrins his hand, and walk muttering underhisbreath.

123. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 095050.png
   Extracted Text: Microsoft to spend 80 billion on Al data centres this year S Korea investigators ask acting BLOOMBERG January 4 MICROSOFT CORP PLANS to spend 80 billion this fiscal year building out data centres, underscoringthe intense cap- ital requirements of artificial intelligence. More than half of this pro- jected spending through june 2025 will be in the US, Microsoft President Brad Smith wrote in a blog post Recent Al progressis thanks to large-scale infrastructure investments that serveas the essential foundation of Al innovation and use, Smith wrote, Cloud infrastructure providers like Microsoft and Amazon.com Inc have been racing to expand computing capacity by constructing new data centres. In the previous fiscal year ending in June 2024, Microsoft spent more than 50 billion on capital expenditures, the vast major- ry related to server farm construction fueled by demand for artificial intelligence services. Smith also cautioned the incoming Trumpadministra- tion against heavy-handed regulationsrelated toAl.The mostimportant US public-pol- LIV eae In the previous fiscal year, Microsoft spent more than 50 billion on capex, the vast majority related to server farm construction fueled by demand for Al services eet icypriorityshould betoensure that the US private sector can continue to advance with the wind atits back Smith wrote. The country needsa prag- matic export control policy that balances strong security protection for Al components intnusted data centreswithan ability for US companies to expand rapidly and provide a reliable source of supply tothe many countries that are American allies and friends? Smith wrote. Much of the spending on datacenters goes towardhigh- powered chips from compa- nies including Nvidia Corp and infrastructure providers such as Dell Technologies Inc. The massive Al-enabled server farms require lots of power, which prompted Microsoft to strike a deal to reopen a reactor at the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant in Pennsylvania, the site of a notorious partial meltdown in 1979, Amazon and Google have also signed nuclear agreements. REUTERS Seoul January  SOUTH KOREAN INVESTIGA- TORSagain asked the countrys acting presidenton Saturday to onder the presidential security servicetocomplywithan arrest warrant for impeached Presi- dentYoon Suk Yeol. The security service, along with military troops, on Friday prevented prosecutors from arresting Yoon SukYeolinasix- hour standoff inside Yoons compound. The investigators secured the warrant to arrest Yoon over his brief declaration of martial aw last month. The Corruption Investiga- tion Office for High-Ranking Officials, which is investigating thecase,saidon Saturday ithad prez to clear way for Yoons arrest People protesting against impeached  Korean president Yoon Suk Yeol near his offcial residence in Seoul on Saturday sereee again asked acting President Choi Sang-mok, the nations finance minister, to order the presidential security service to cooperate with the warrant.A finance ministry spokesperson declinedto comment.Thepolice asked the chief of the presiden- tial security service, of Park Chong jun, toappear for ques- tioning on Tuesday, Youhap News reported Yoons Decem- ber 3 martial declaration stunned South Koreaand ledto the first arrest warrant to be issued fora sitting president.

124. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-05 095110.png
   Extracted Text: Chinese dam on table for Sullivans India visit AL civilian nuclear cooperation, space may also be taken up REUTERS Washington, January 4 US NATIONAL SECURITY adviser Jake Sullivans visit to Delhi from Jauary. 5-6 is expected to include discus- sionswith Indian counterparts about the impact of Chinese dams,a senior US official said lateon Friday. Washington and its West- ern allies have long viewed India as a counter to Chinas, rising influence in Asia and beyond.Weve certainly seen in many places in the Indo- Pacific that upstream dams that the Chinese have created, induding in the Mekong region, can have really poten- tially damaging environmen- talbutalso dimateimpac downstream countrie senior US official said ahead of Sullivans visit. The official added that Washington will discuss New Delhis concerns in the visit. Government says it has con- veyed its concerns to Beijing about Chinas plan to build a hydropower dam in Tibet on the Yarlung Zangbo River Which flowsinto India.Chinese Washington also expects to discuss Chinese economic overcapacity during the visit officials say that hydropower projectsinTibet will nothavea major impact on the environ- ment or on downstreamwater supplies. The construction of that dam, which will be the lamgest of its kind in the world, with an estimated capacity of 300 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity annually, was approved last month. Washington also expects that topics such as civi nuclear cooperation, art intelligence, space, military licensing and Chinese eco- nomic overcapacity will be Drought up in the visit, the US official said. American officials will not be meeting the Dalai Lama during the visit, another US. official said.India and the US have built close ties in recent years with occasional differences over issues like minority abuse in India, ties with Russia amid Moscows invasion of Ukraine and alleged assassination plots against Sikh separatists on US and Canadian soil

125. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215056.png
   Extracted Text: From using Harshad Mehtas broker-banker-promoter template to front-running, Parekh continues to keep regulators busy Ketan Parekh Dark side of markets AKSHATA GORDE Mumbai, January 5 OLD HABITS DiEhard,and Ketan Parekh seems intent on proving that he is the poster boy of that phrase. ForthePentafourbull,who was convicted in a stock market scam over two decades ago, stock market manipulation is an addi tion hejustcant give up. In less than a decade after his 2003-2017 ban from the stock market ended, Parekh met thesame fate again last week  thistime for front-running, Even in these two decades since his first debarment, hisbrush with the law has continued. Parekh allegedly remainedactive in market manipulation, operating through proxies and front accounts,which ledto tradingbans for 26 entities in 2009. In 2020, his name surfaced yetagain in connectionwith afresh rigging scandal, buthe was eventu- allyconvicted in 2023 fordupingan investorof 2 crorewith thehelp of, afemaleassociate, Parekh frst shot at infamywas inthelate 1990s almostadecade after big bull Harshad Mehtasbro- ker-banker-promoter nexus had eroded investor confidence inthe stock market. The timing was per- fecttoo.Thedot-com boomwas rag- ing, and Parekh replicated Mehtas model to drive up stockpprices. His K-10 stocks, including names like Pentamedia Graphics, Global Tele-Systems, and HFCL, circular trading, wherein healong were much sought afterby fellow _withhisteam executed similar sell brokers and investors. Stock orders in the same price prices of scrips like Visualsoft in thesame number rosefrom 625 to 8,448 per at the same time shareand Sonata Software which spiked from 890 to 82,150, trading volumes, Parekh controlled the Gullible retail entire show from behind investors rushed the scenes using benami to invest in these accounts, proxytraders,and stocks seeingthe loans from variousbanks,to pumped up orchestrate a huge pump demand in hopes and dump scheme. He generated artificial demand for these K-10 stocks through of windfall gains, butlittle did they know that they were falling intoa trap. But then the dot-com bust cameat the beginningof 2001,and the bear cartel began hammering his favouritestocks.The sharp drop inthe shares valuations prompted banks, who were holding these stocksaspledges,tocallinformore securitiesand repayment of loans. Parekhsmost infamousassoci tion was withMadhavpura Mercan- tile Cooperative BankMMCB, from which he borrowed nearly 800 crore tofundhis market operations, usinginflated stockprices ascollat- eral. Afterthe crash, MMCB was eft clutching worthless shares, trigger- inga financial crisis, followed bya payment crisisat majorexchanges. As the market turbulencecoin- cided with the Budget session of 2001, the government was pres- suredto lookinto thecrash,andsub- sequently a probe was initiated by the Securitiesand Exchange Board of India Sebi and a joint parliamen- tary committee into Parekhsdeal- ings.Consequently,he wasjailed Investigations revealed that this wasnt Parekh fist crime  hewas also involved in the Canbank Mutual Fundseam of 1992,whereinvarious entities had siphoned off 47 crore. Interestingly, despite working with Mehta in GrawMore Investment, Parekh had intially came out of the scam relatively unscathed. Continued on Page 5

126. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215127.png
   Extracted Text: Fast  flexible Startups turn to revenue-based financing  E-commerce  SaaS drive demand amid muted equity markets AYANTIBERA Bengaluru, January 5 STARTUPS, ESPECIALLY IN e-com- merceand B28 software-as-a-ser- vice Saa3, leaned heavily on rev- enue-based financing RBA in2024 as equity markets remained muted. The trend marked a shift in how businesses sought capital for growth, inventory management, and marketexpansion. BF platforms such as Velocity and GetVantage experienced a surge in activity, with Velocity reporting a 50 increase in dis- bbursals and GetVantage doubling its investments. These platforms, which offer non-collateralised loans repaid as a percentage of a companys gross revenue, have emergedas critical funding sources ALTERNATI FUNDING. Under RBF, firms access funds in exchange for In Ce reer cerry cen The models appeal lies in its 53-20  firbtiyrspeedandatgrmene. rae ofgrossrevenue _with revenue cycles ea as monthly repayment, along Collectively, Velocity and with afixedfee on _ GetVantage have deployed around 81,000 crore tthe principal in RBF sincetheir inception in 2019-20 for startups navigating tough funding environments. Alot of brands are looking for capital to grow in quick commerce and manage inventory effectively said Atul Khichariya, co-founder and COO of Velocity. Weve also observedrising demand from cloud kitchen startups over the past few monthsheadded. RBF offersa flexibleand accessi- ble funding option for startupsand small and medium enterprise SMES thatoften struggle tosecure institutional capital or traditional bbankloans.Companiescan access funds in exchange for 5-20 ot gross revenue as monthly repay- ment, coupled with a fixed fee on theprincipalThe feeranges from 6- 6.5 for a six-month term to 10 12 forup toa year. Continued on Page 5

127. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215152.png
   Extracted Text: FY25 DISBURSEMENT MAY BE MARGINALLY LOWER ON YEAR Direct benefit transfers top 4 lakh crore so far this fiscal PRASANTASAHU New Delhi, January 5 THE CENTRE HAS transferred assorted subsidies and sops worth about 4.15 lakh crore to benefi- ciaties through direct benefit transfer DBT so far in the current fiscal, reflecting an acceleration in the pace of government spending in the third quarter, The Centre undertook DBT worth about 2.3 lakh crore in the first half of FY25, as general elec- tions and late presentation of the full Budget slowed down theimple- mentation of programmes. Direct benefit transfers reached arecord 87.16 lakh crorein FY23, largelyduetothefreegrains scheme and higher subsidies on fertiliser duetoprice rises. According to trends, the DBT in FY25 could be slightly lower than 6,91 akh crore in FY24. Given that the full Budget was presented in uly, rollout of various new scheme was delayed, including thenew or revamped programmes like Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana- Gramin PMAY-G,UrbanPMAY-U HEADROOM TO IMPROVE SPENDING QUALITY mOfDBTtransfer de so far inFv25, 22.54 lakh crore, or 61, was in kind. The remaining was cash transfers to Aadhaar-linked bank accounts Subsidies worth 1.21 lakh crore were transferred towards subsidised fertiliser so far in FY25 while subsidies worth about 1,08 lakh crore were transferred as food grains, andemployment linked incentives. Of DBT transfers made so farin FY25,22.54lakh crome,or61, was in kind. The remaining was cash transfers to Aadhaar-linked bank accounts. Subsidies worth 1.21 lakherore wweretransferredtowartssubsidised fertiliser so far in FY25 while subsi- diesworth about 1.08 lakh crore were transferred to beneficiariesin the form of food grains under the public distribution system PDS. Around 52,492 crore hasbeen racy peer eae ea PERC etry DBT 2 lakh crore 3 Eg 55  sas Fy2i Fy22 Fy23 Fy24 Fy2s so far transferred for the job guarantee scheme,Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee ofthe central government schemes 320resultedin 3.5 lakhcroresav- ings due to plugging of leakages scheme MGNREGS _ between FY15 and FY23, and 11,860 crore for subsidised Morethan 1.68 billion benefi cooking gas. ciaries are registered under various For Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awas Yojana-Rural, 16,366 crore has been transferred so farin FY25, compared witha Budget outlay of 854,500 crore forthe full year, indi- cating that there would be ashort- fallin spending thisyear. Direct benefit transfer for most DBT schemes. The DBT-induced savings gave managers of governmentfinancesa significant headroom to improve spending quality and offer addi tional welfare benefits to deserving beneficiaries without constraining the exchequertoomuch.

128. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215209.png
   Extracted Text: Agri credit scales new high, to cross 28 lakh crin FY25 Seenup 10, BENEFITTING FARMERS formalisation of rural aS ost credit aids process z  terion 25.49 4 SANDIPDAS 25 ees NewDelhi, January 5 18.63 THE RELEASE OF credit to theagri- culture sectorby commercial banks aS and regional rural banks slikely to ross28lakh crore anewrecorddue toarisein formalisation ofrural credit structure ShajiKV,chairman, Nabard said on Sunday.n the last ten years, theaverageannualgrowthintheflow ofagriculturalcredithasbeen indou- ble digit at 13 We willbe crossing 228 lakh crore of credit flow in the current fiscal Shajitold FE Theagri-creditdisbursement tar- get ofa record 227.5 lakh crore by financial institutions was set for FY25,which was 31 higher com- pared to target of 21 lakhcrorein will provide 20.62 lakh crore or _Shaji aid that Nabard isaiming FY24. The banks had disbursed 75of thetotal credit earmarked to launch part Ilof the 1,000.crore 25.49 lakh crore in FY24 under _forfarmersin thecurrent fiscal Nabventures fund focussed onthe term andcrop loans,ariseof 15 Outof total agri-creit flow, 4.2 _startupsinagricultureand allied sec- compared to FY23. The growth this lakh crore has been earmarked for _toralongwith climatesmart agricul- year is seen tobe about 10. shortterm loanstothelivestocksec- tureasa keyelement, Nabard incol- With arise in agri-credit flow,  tordairy,fisheriesandpoultryinthe laboration with the agriculture accessofshare of informalsectorin current fiscal To address thisimbal- ministry last year had launched credit disbursement is declining ance in credit flow, he said National 750 croreanagr fund forstart-ups which indicateformalisation ofrural_BankforAgricultureandRuralDevel- and rural enterprises Agri-SURE credit,which would ensurealotof opmentNabardwouldusedigitised aimed atearly stagestart- ups. margins with the rural population, creditrecordoffarmersthroughAgr _Underthe modified interest sub- hesaid at thesideline of Grameen Stackan initiative of agriculture _ventionschemeMISS farmershold- BharatMahotsavbeingorganisedby  ministrywhichwould createregistry ing Kisincreditcards KCCs are pro- Nabardincollaborationwithdepart- offarmerswillagelandmapsandcrop vided up to 3 lakh loans at 7 ment of financial services. sown. Last fiscal,credit disbursal to interest per annum to meet their The finance ministry has ear- Tamil Naduwashighestat 4.39tril- working capital requirement. The marked 16 lakh crore or the short _lion17.6ofdisbursalinthecoun- scheme provides additional interest termeroploansand11.5lakhcrore try followed by Andhra Pradesh _ subvention of 3 for prompt repay- to term loans to be disbursed by accountingfor2.96trillioor12 _ mentoftheloan,therebyreducingthe banks for FY25.Commercial banks _ofthedisbursalin 2023-24. cffectiverateofinterest to 4. ro BG Source nance ministhy projected FDI in India growing rapidly, says Goyal PRESS TRUST OF INDIA New Delhi, January 5 FDIINFLOWS INTOthecountryare surging, with investors from the West Asia, Japan, European Union, and the US recognising Indias sta- tusasa topinvestment destination, drivingmpideconomicgrowthand generating millions of new jobs, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyalhas said. He said thatglobalinvestorsare showing keen interest in India as the country offers several advan- tages suchas strong domestic mar- ket, skilled and talented workforce and rule oflaw. I can clearly see foreign direct investment in India once again growing rapidly and creating mil- Tions of jobs. Countriesin the West Asia, EFTA region, Japan, and investors from the EU and the US areallrealising that Indiacontinues tobe themost preferred destination for FDI,Goyal said. Headded that Indias stableand predictable regulatory framework, coupled witha favourable business environment and progressive poli- cies aimed at enhancing ease of doing business, is attracting an increasing number of investors fromaround theworld, Last month I meta CEO of one ofthe largest fundsin the US,whois also the largest investor in India, and he shared with me that his investments in India over the last LOyears havebeen someofthebest investments his funds have ever donehe noted,

129. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215227.png
   Extracted Text: OMCs may see muted refining margins in FY26 ARUNIMA BHARADWAJ New Delhi, January 5 STATE-OWNED OIL MARKETING companiesOMCsarelikelytoregis- ter subdued gross refining margins GRMs during FY26 due to duggish global consumer and industrial demand, particularly in China,and additional supply from global refin- erycapacityexpansions,according to analysts. However, robust domestic demand forpetroleumproducts,dri- ven primarily by diesel, petrol and LPG js expected to support healthy marketing margins during FY26. According to India Ratings, the credit profile of downstream com- panies islikelyto remain stable in FY26.The agency attributes this to strong domestic demand and healthy marketing margins, which are expected to offset the impact of compressed GRMs, resulting in a solid overall Ebitda. Petrochemical petchem Ebitda started improving during FY25, after remaining under pressureduring FY24,on account of animprovementin the spreads for petrochemical products, India Rat- ings stated. The agency predicts that bitda forstandalone petchemplay- ersand thepetchemsegment of inte- SLIPPERY PATH mThe credit  mintegrated profile of OMCs downstream  benefitted from companiesis healthy likelytoremain  marketing stable in FY26,  margins during analysts said  HLFY25 1 Indias upstream companies may face adeclineinEbitda duetomoderating oll prices Oil prices averaged 78.7bbl inQaryas mitdeclinedto 75.2bblin October 73.02bbI in November grated refiners willimprovein FY26 compared to the lows seen in FY24, During thefirsthalf of FY25,inte- grated OMCsbenefitted fromhealthy marketing margins, supported by declining crude oil prices, subdued crack spreads and stableretailprices. Indian oil and gas demand is expected to remain strong in FY26, leading to an expansion in refinery and petrochemicalcapacities Indias refinery capacity is expected to increase by 220 in the next two- three years. India Ratings expects the strong demand to be driving oil and gasinvestments decisions in India, said Bhanu Patni, associate director, corporates, India Ratings. While downstream companies are expected to maintain healthy Fitda, thecountrysupstream com- panies may face adeclinein Ebitda due to moderating oil prices and reduced production from legacy fields. However, the impact of low crudeoil priceisexpectedtobeotiset bytheremovalof specialesciseonthe production of crude and an increase inproductionexpectefromnewdis- coveries,india Ratingssaid. Upstream companies will con- tinue to carn healthy margins, degpite the current decline incrude cilpricesastheywouldremainabove 65 perbarrl thiswouldkeep sufi cient cushion in margin, with esti- mated break-even cost of production at 40-45bbl, leaving an Bbitda of 20-30bb1itadded, Oil prices averaged 78.7bblin Q2FY25, declining to 75.2bbl in Octoberand 73.02bbl in Novem- ber Analysts expect crude pricesto remain influenced by geopolitical developments, demand recovery, and productioben targets set by OPEC. However, for domestic producers, India Ratings expects some relief from the impact of decline in oil priceson account of the removal of windfall profit tax on crude, the agency noted. For the city gas distribution CGD sector, return on invested capitalis expected tomoderate but remain healthy. However, funding capex for new geographical areas could facepressureduetodeclining intemalaccruals. Performance of standalone petrochemicalplayersmayimprove during FY26as theybenefitfroman improvement in the crack spreads and easing of the oversupply situa- tion created due to the rampant capacity addition during FY19- FY24, especially in China, the agency highlighted, The governments earlier reduc tion in domestic gas allocation to CGD companies has created chal- lenges forthesector.Risingdemand in the CGD segment, coupled with ddediining administered price mech- anism APM gas production, has led toa reduced priority allocation of APM gas, especiallyfor CNG. Analysts see the reduced alloca tionwillexposetheplayersin thesec- tortotheriskofmanaginglong term supplycontractsCGDcompanieson a blended basis eam an Ebitda mar- gin of 7-10 per scm, which could reduce by 3.0-4.0scm depending ontheir volume mix postthe reduc- tion inallocation of domestic gas for CGD sector India Ratings said.

130. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215249.png
   Extracted Text: Cll wish list Budget should lay emphasis on employment creation FE BUREAU New Delhi, January 5 To BOOST PRODUCTIVITY and fosterinclusive growth, the Con- federation of Indian Industry Cll has recommended that the gov- ernment prioritise employment generation asa central theme in the Union Budget for FY26. The Citas suggestedthe intro- duction of an integrated National Employment Policy, which would consolidate various employment- generating schemes currently being implemented by multiple ministries and states. The industry body has also called for targeted support to employment-intensive sectors suchas construction, tourism and textiles, alongside the rolloutofan internship program in rural gov- ernment offices forcollege-edu- ated youth. This initiative internship would create short-term employ- ment opportunities in govern- ment offices while bridging the gap between education and pro- fessional skills, said Cll director general Chandrajit Banerjee. The Cll has further urged the government to implement mea- suresaimedatincreasing womens participation in the workforce, which remainslow. New initiatives, including the constructionof dormitories using CSR funds, the formalisation of sectorslike the care economy, and theestablishmentof government- Prog read introduction of Pe or Re Ce mcad co The policy would consolidate employmen -generating schemes Cll has urged govt to implement measures aimed at increasing womens participatior inthe workforce tm Ithas recommended rolling out the fourlabour codes supported creches in industria clusters, could be undertaken t enhance femalelaborforce partic ipation, Banerjee said, In addition, the organisatio has recommended rolling out th four labour codes to modernis Indias labour framework. Italso called for social secur coverage for gig and platforn workers tostrengthen the employ mentecosystem, Fe had recently reported that framework to provide social secu rity forgigand platform workersi likely to be introduced eatlyin th next fiscal year.

131. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215546.png
   Extracted Text: Auxano Cap to focus on new investment areas in FY26 S SHANTHI Bengalury, January 5 AUXANO CAPITAL, AN early- stage venture capital firm, has announced its plans to dive into emerging sectors such as spacetech, carbon emission solutions,andbatterytechnol- ogy in FY26. With four invest- mentsalreadyinFY25 and two more expected by the fiscal year-end, the firm is also dou- bling down on its portfolio with follow-on investments in twocompanies. Weinvest in Indian star- tupswith global scaling poten- tial, leveraging technology to address critical needs. Ourcore focus remainson fintech and enterprise SaaS, said Brijesh Damodaran, managing part- nerofAuxano Capital. Thefirm has also expanded its invest- ment scopetoincludeindustry 4.0 technologies like lo, arti- ficialintelligence Al, machine learning ML, and semicon- ductors, Auxanoisin thefinal stages of closing three new deals. Theseinclude startupsspecial- ising in licensed third-party services for Bharat, retail ana lytics solutions for global With four investments already in FY25 and two more expected by the press TRUST OF INDIA fiscal-end, the firm is also  flew Dal, January 5 doubling down on its portfolio with follow-on FIFTY-ONE TRAINS were festments in two firms delayed and sever fights re _ scheduled as dense fog enveloped the national capital enterprises, and data privacy  on Sunday moming, reducing and fraud prevention aligned  visibility tozeroofficials sad. with DPDP Act. ro visibility prevailed over Auxano Capital currently  Palam from 4AM to 7.30 AM manages twofundsa25mil-  IST,accompanied by easterly lion Category 1 Angel Fund  winds at 8-13 kmph,an IMD launched in 2019 and a 50  official sai. million Category fund intro-  Compared to Saturdays 9- duced in 2032. Thefirmplans  hourzerovisibility spall,Palam todosetheCategorylfundfor  experienced a relatively investments by 2025. Its  shorterduration of 3.5hours investment size ranges from  of zero visibility on Sunday 500,000to potentially three  the officialadded, to fourtimesthe initial fund-  The maximum temperaturein ing. the city settled at 18.6degrees Celsius, 0.7 notch below the normal average, and the mini- mum temperature was recorded at 9.4 degrees Cel- sius, the India Meteorological Department IMD sai. Therelative humidity during thedayrangedbetween 83 and 95 percentyit said. For Monday, the weather department has predicted a generally cloudy sky with a possibilty ofverylightto ight rainaccompaniedbythunder- stormsin the moming, The predominant surfacewind is expected to blow from the southeast at a speed of less than 4kmphduring the morn- inghours.Smogandmoderate fogare likely in most places, with dense fog expected ina Delhi Dense fog disrupts flight and train services fewareasduringthe moming, The wind speed is forecast to gradually increase to 6-8 kmph from the southeast in theafternoon, before decreas ing to less than 6 kmph from the northwest during the evening and night. Smog or shallow fog is likely in the evening and night, it added. Themaximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle around 18 and 11 degrees Celsius respectively. Inarelated development, the airquality in the national cap- ital remained in thevery poor! category. Delhis 24-hour average AQI was recorded at 339, according todata from theCentral Pollu- tion Control Board CPCB.

132. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215612.png
   Extracted Text: Subscription models gaining traction in ride-hailing sector NEES HUSSAIN Bengaluru, January 5 SUBSCRIPTION-BASED MODELS. are gaining popularity in the online ride-hailing sector, with major players like Ola, Uber and Rapidoreconfiguring strategies to stay competitive. Subscription models, where dri- vers pay a fixed fee to platforms insteadof sharinga commission per ride, have gained traction, especialy in the auto-rickshaw and two- wheeler segments. Rapidosadoption of this model has yielded notable results. The bike-taxi player, which tumedunicornlastyear,cutitslosses by45and increased operating rev- enue by 46 in FY24. Its gross order value surged 76 to 4,257 crore, with 20 of this coming from its new four-wheeler cab services. Rapidos success hasinfluenced sivals.Ola and Uber are testing sub- scription frameworks in high-vol- ume low-ticket categories like auto- rickshaws to curb driver attrition, Drivers using subscription models report eamings boosts of 35-40, attracting more workers to these platforms. However, the approachis not withoutcontroversy. Prabhjeet Singh, president of Uber India  South Asia, argued that subscription fees merely replace commissions under a different guise and fail to address coreoperational costs. Regulatory clarity also remains a hurdle.The GST Council hasdeferred GETTING POPULAR BtScaa boss mDriverspaya  mThemodel fixed feeto getting popular platforms instead especially inthe ofsharing a autorrickshaw commission and two-wheeler perride segments decisionson taximplicationsforsub- scription-based models Meanwhile, rulings like the ones from Kar natakas Authority forAdvance Rul- ing, which taxes platforms like Rapido for services provided by dri- vers haveadded complexity. To retain customers, platforms are doubling down on loyalty pro- grammes.Rapidospowerpassoffers guaranteed discounts while Uberhas introduced Uber Onein India, and Ola has expanded its Ola Coins rewards programme Premiumoffer- ings like Uber Black and Ola Prime Plus are also targeting high-ticket OLAAND UBER irTesting subscription frameworks inhigh-volume, lowtticket categorieslike auto-tickshawsto curb driver attrition  Drivers using subscription models report earings boosts of 35-40 Attracting more workers tothese platforms but the approachis not without controversy customers with enhanced services, though competition fromniche play- cers remains stiff. Onthedlectrification front,BluS- mart continues toexpand its EV fleet but faces challenges due to infra- structure limitations. Meanwhile, inter-cityEV adoption lags withcur- rent models unable to meet the demands of longer routes. Analysts, however,remainoptimistic With low online penetration in shared mobil- ity, particularly in three-wheelers, andavast pool of untappedusers,the sector is poised forsustained growth intheooming years. Wilmar to emulate ITC post its exit from Adani PRESS TRUST OF INDIA New Delhi, January 5 ADANIWILMAR AWL, the coun- trys largest edible oil company,is adopting astrategy similarto ITC byleveraging its core business and extensive distribution network to drive growth in its high-margin FMCG portfolio after the Adani group exit according tosources. Just as ITC used its strong ciga- rette business toexpand,AWLis se to useits dominant edible oil business asa foundation for FMCG growth. Following the exit, Wilmar may fur ther capitalise on this approach by introducing more global FMCG brands into the Indian market sources aware ofthe mattersai. In the Decemberquarter, AWL FMCG business achieved a 24 year-on-year growth in volume, underscoring its efforts to expand both its food and FMCG product offerings. Consequently,theshareot food and FMCG in overall volumes increased to 20, whileits share in total revenues rose to 9, up from 10 and 5 respectively, in FY21. This shift mirrors the strategy pursued byl TC.In foods, keypack- aged products such as wheat flour, rice,nuggets pulses, poha and sugar have experienced a robust double- digit growth, it had stated in a fil ingwith stockexchanges recently.

133. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215629.png
   Extracted Text: TWO NEWSUVs, TWO PRODUCT REFRESHES ON THE ROAD TOO Compact EV, new Duster key to Renaults India comeback French carmakers first EVin the country to beaffordable SWARAJ BAGGONKAR Mumbai January 5 RENAULT IS PREPARING a strong comeback in India witha compact electric vehicle EV and the next- generation Duster leadingiits prod- lctstrategy. The Frenchautomaker, oncea dominant playerin themi size SUV segment with the Duster, is planning two new SUVs, two productrefreshesand anaffordable EV forthe Indian market. RenaultsupcomingA-segment EV willbeits firstelectric vehicle in India andcaterto budget-conscious buyers. Built on the same platform as the Kwid, Kiger and Triber, this compact EV willtarget the sub 10 lakh price segment, which is cur- rently occupied by models like MG Comet, Tata Tiago EV and Tata Punch EV, While other automakers like Hyundai, Maruti Suzuki, Mahi dra  Mahindra, CitronandKiaare focused on EVs priced between 11 lakh and 25 lakh, Renaults approachpositionsituniquelyinthe entry-level EV space. IN TOP GEAR The Bigster New EV Becrncarecele Built onthe same with Hyundai Alcazar, New-gen five-seater Duster Marks Renaults return tothe highly competitive mid-size SUV segment tmTo take on market leaders like Hyundai Creta, Kia Seltos  Tata Curvy Thenew-generation five-seater Duster marks Renaults return to the highly competitive mid-size SUV segment, where it will face market leaders such as Hyundai Creta, Kia Seltosand Tata Curvy. In addition to the Duster, the 211-25 lakhssegment platformas the Kwid, Tata SafariMGHector Kiger and Triber, it will Plus and Mahindra targetthesub-10 _ XUV700 lalch price segment mCurrenty occupied Market share bymodelsike MG mRenaultsmarket Comet, TataTiago EV _sharehas fallen andTataPunchEV_sigrificantly to below Hyundai, Maruti 1 by Nov FY25_ Suzuki, MM, Citron Market share andKiafocusedon _droppedto 1in FY24 from 2 in FY 23 French carmaker is planning the Bigster,a seven-seaterSUV thatwill competewith Hyundai Alcazar,Tata Safari, MG Hector Plusand Mahin- dra XUV700. Inanote on Sunday,Venkataram Mamilapalle, managing director of Renault India, highlighted the com- panyslong-termcommitment.In 2025, Renault India is poised to embark on a transformative jour- ney, laying the groundwork for an exciting future hestated. Headed thatthe revamped Triberand Kiger would be launched later in 2025, followedbyanall-new SUVin 2026. Renaults market share in India has fallen significantly in recent yyears,droppingto 1 in FY24 from 29 in FY23, according to SIAM data. By November FY25, its share dipped below 1. The lack of refreshed models and rising com- petition have been major challenges for the company. Currently, Renaults presencein Indias high-growth SUV market is limited to the Kiger,a compact SUY. Itsother models include the entry- levelhatchback Kwid andthe Triber, amulti-utility vehicle competing with Maruti Suzuki Ertiga, Analysts saidwith theintroduc- tion of an affordable EV and new SUVs, Renault aims to reverse its declining fortunes in India. The strategic focus on expanding its portfolio whileaddressing gaps in high-demandsegments reflects the brands renewed efforts to regain relevancein a dynamic and com- petitive market, they added.

134. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215655.png
   Extracted Text: Tighter anti-spam norms in a month MOUMITA BAKSHI CHATTERJEE New Delhi, January 5 TIGHTER REGULATIONS ON curb- ing spam aswellas new consultation examining an authorisation frame- workfortelemarketersareexpected incoming weeks,saidTrai chairman Anil Kumar Lahoti-Traiwillalsostart pilot thismonth toonboard paper- basedand past permissions given by customersforreceiving commercial communicationsontoits digital dis- tributed ledger technology plat- form. This process in the long-run wouldincludescrubbingandverify- ing customers current validityand offering opt-outstothosekeen onit, Trai has also ruled out any rethinkonitsatest regulation that mandates service providers to offer separate special tariff vouchers STV forvoice calls and SMS. Lahotissaidwhileconsumerscan beencouraged tousedata,theycan- not becompelled to doso. Traisfocus isto protectnotonly the interest oftheindustry,butalso theinterest of the consumer, who musthavetheoption to payonly for services they need, he sad. The telecom regulators also all set tojnitiate amacsive rehaul ofits STRONG SIGNAL Tighter regulations on curbing spam, new consultation examining an authorisation framework for telemarketers also mRethinkruled out on rule mandating service . providers to offer separate mTraitolaunchapilotthis month special tariff vouchers for to onboard paper-based and past voice calls and SMS permissions given by customers orto the digital system rehaulofits IT system for inthe longrun,theprocessto _ rationalisation and include scrubbing and verifying reduction in multiple users current validity and offering _ instances of filings by telcos, opt-outs tothose keenon it other industry stakeholders IT system, amove, it expects, would 2025 are recommendations on _Trais_2025 to-do list also lead torationalisation andreduction satellite communications spectrum indludes framing recommenda- in multiple instances of filings by arguablyone of the most keenly _ tions for network authorisation, telecom companies and other watched events in a high-stakes _newauthorisation framework for industry stakeholders. Deloitte game involving telcosike jioand broadcasting, and revamp of whichhasbeen ropedinasaconsul- Airtel on oneside and Elon Musks _ national numbering plan for fixed tantisonthevergeofsubmittingits _Starlinkpitted on the other. line, while work will continue on report on revampofitsITsystems. Lahoti declined tocommenton combating and curbing spamcalls Trai will thereafter appoint an thespecifics ortimeline for release and pesky messages. agencyfortherevampandtheentire of the recommendation except to. _Trai is in the process of opera- exercisewillbe prioritisedandcom- sayallcommentsarebeing exam- _ tionalising system of separate 160 pleted thisyear, Lahoti said, ined ontheirmeritsandwewill ake _ seriesforserviceortransactional calls On Trais list of priorities for abalancedview bworincinalentitiessavbanks insur- ance companies or other service providerstodifferentiatethemfrom promotional calls. Currently, both types of callsarebeingrouted under 1140 series, which willhhenceforth be used onlyforpromotional calls. Lahoti said the regulator will firm up its recommendations on millimetre wave spectrum band auction of spectrum in 37-37.3 GHz, 37.5-40 GHz and 42.5-43.5, GHzbandsinaboutamonthstime and also bring outa consultation paper on backhaul spectrum by March thisyear. Anotherthing which we will be working onis the digital consent acquisition. Although the provision for this exists in the regulation ICCCPR, the practical constraint has been the legacy consents. because there are volumes of con- sent which have been acquiredon paper or reside in the past systems of principal entities, he challenges has been about how to take those consents onboard to the DLT, because you cannot completelydis- cardthem, Lahotisaid, Traiplanstoworkwithall stake- holders to find aworkable solution, toensure the processdoesnot cause anardisrrntone on

135. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215716.png
   Extracted Text: Renee looks to end this fiscal with up to 400-cr topline AYANTIBERA Bengaluru, January 5 INTHE CROWDEDmarket ofbeauty and colourcosmetics brands, direct- to-consumerstartup Renee Cosmet- ics is expecting to doubleits revenue 0350-400 crore bythe end of this fiscal Thestartupsgrowthcomeson thebackofa 10-11annual growth ratein Indias20-billionbeautyand personal care market, which is the fastest in the world, asperareport by Redseerand Nykaa InFY24, Renee Cosmetics man- agedto doubleits revenuefromoper- ationsto191.7 crorein its fourth yearof business whilelosseswidened 8890t0 861.5 crore, mainly because ofover?100 croreofadvertisingand promotional expenses. Lossesmayhave grown because of investments in our brand-cre- ation process. Our expenses were not related to direct sales but more related tocontentcreation, market- ing and growing offline channels. FY24 was more like a foundation year for us, co-founder Ashutosh Valanitold FE He added that the company is nearly profitable in Q3 but will take another fiscal to show full-yearprof- itability.In October, we had about 838 croreinrevenue,itwast35 crore in Novemberand weareon our way tohitting 38-40 croreinDecember. Atthiskindofvolume,itisdifficultto make lossesanymoreheadded. Toexpand the offline reach of its products, the company plans to increase the numberof its stores or kiosks toabout50 next year,fromthe current 17Tobesuretstil gets65 of its revenue from online channels e-commerce, quickcommerceand, its website , among which sales from quick commerceappsgenerate about 10 ofitstopline. We are not very heavy on EBOs because weareasub-500 brand.We dont think that this model is sus- tainableforus.Soweopen ourkiosks inpremiummallsandairportswhere thuceisalotof footfall of peoplewith BRAND-BUILDING mDovblesrevenue from operations to 2191.7 crore in fourth year of business mBut losses widened 88 to 261.5 crore dueto over 2100 crore inadvertising and promotional expenses Nearly Plans to profitablein increase QSbuttotake  storekiosk anotherfiscal  countto to show about 50 next full year year, fromthe profitability  current 17 Meets of investments in our et eects tanN se anintent tobuy? Valaninoted. Thecompany asfoundedby for- mer Beardo co-founders Priyank Shah and Valani and actress Aashka Goradia Goble. It has so far raised 485 million from investors such as Evolvence India, Tidal Capital and Edelweiss,amongothers Renee competes in a crowded colour cosmetics market with the likesof Sugar Cosmetics Insight Cos- meticsand Swiss Beauty, as wellas long-standing brands suchas May- bellineand Lakme. Moreover, new-age brands such as Mamearth and Plum, which are primarily in the skin and hair care segment, havealsoentered the colour cosmetics segment recently but haventseen rach success.

136. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215741.png
   Extracted Text: Startups turn to revenue-based financing AMONG NOTABLE BENEFI- CIARIES are brands like Smoor Chocolates, Imperio Restaurants,and IDC Kitchen, which have utilised REF for initiatives such as launching new restaurants or cloud kitchens. While venture debt typ- ically reserved for venture- backed startups  remains larger in scale, with an esti- mated 900 milion in invest- mentsin 2024, RBFis rapidly growing Collectively, Velocity and GetVantage have deployed around 1,000 crore since their inception in 2019-20, 2B Saa companies also turned to RBF in significant numbers. Velocity earmarked 300 crore for Saas startups in 2024, while GetVantage launched a 250-crore fund for the sector. Efficient Capi tal Labs, focused on the South Asia-US SaaS corridor, dou- bled its disbursals last year, originating more than 70, million in financing between 12023and Q22024 These companies are leveraging RBF to break into and expand within US mar- kets, said Kaustav Das, co- founder and CEO of Efficient Capital Labs. Das,a finance veteran, believes competition inthe RBF spacewillintensify in 2025 as interest rates decline andventure debtplay- ers and commercial banks become more active. Interest rates are coming down, which willlead tomore competition. Venture debt and bigger commercial banks will play a larger role, and existing players will need to offer more competitive pric- ing, Dasnoted, While RBF platforms cur- rently manageasmallerasset base compared to venture debt, their ability to cater to non--venture-backed startups and SMEs has made them indispensable. The models appeal lies in its flexibility, speed, and alignment with reventiecycles,makingit par- ticularly attractive in uncer- taineconomic climates. As equity funding gradu- ally ecoversandinterest rates case, the dynamics of startup financing will further evolve. However, analysts said that RBP has firmly established itself asa vital alternative for growth-focused  startups, cementing its role in the broader fundingecosystem, Debt MFs may get tax relief. SEPARATELY, THE INDUSTRY has sought alignmentinhold- ing periods while calculating LICG for gold-based invest- ments such asgold exchange traded funds ETFs, gold mutual funds, sovereign gold bbonds,and physical gold. Cur- rently, gold MF and physical gold dassifyunder ITCGona holding period of over 24 months,andtherestonahold- ing period of more than 12 months. Since April 1, 2023, capital gainsondebtMisare taxed at the investors income tax I-T slab rate, irrespective of the holding period, which has resultedin increased taxliabil- itiesfordebt MFinvestors.Pre- viously,LTCG on debt MFwere taxed at 20 with indexation benefit or 10 sans indexa- tion, and short-term capital gains STCG holding period upto threeyearswere taxed at slab rates. Debt funds are defined as those with 35 or less of theirassets under man- agement in domestic equities. However, due to the changes introduced inthe july 2024 Budget, investments made in debt MFspriortoApril 1, 2023, also lost the indexa- tionadvantage. TheBudget for FY25 pre sented on July 23,2024  had removed indexation benefits for LTCG tax for all asset classes, including that of bonds. Butin August following abacklash from the realestate TAX TALES Eee eee are taxed at the investors cutie Gea tad coro Peco ees Ee ered prior to April, 2023, lost ee eueyy their assets under management in domestic equities  sector, the government rein- troducedtheindexation bene- fitforLTCG forpropertiespur- chased by resident individuals before july 23,2024, The Assodation of Mutual Funds in India Amfi has requested the government to revisit the withdrawal of indexation on long term debt investments and restore the status quo ante by amending thetax lawsre-introducing the Rasy Piercy Peter tl Pee etd ern indexation benefit on long term capital gains from debt funds in respect of all invest- mentsin debt funds made up toMarch 31,2023, The MF industry believes that indexation is not a tax relief buta neutraliser of the impact of inflation, and apply- ig the new rates retrospec- tively can be detrimental to investor confidenceand deter new investors from entering capital markets through MEs aswell as the existing ones to make further investments, said Amfi. Over the past 3-5 years, debt fundshave given returns of around 7, while the infla- tion hasbeen hovering around 5.5, Thus, the real income eared by the debt fund investors s only 1.5, accord- ing toAmfi According to sources, the government may amend the Finance Act toconsider debt MF units as securities and not as special mutual funds sothatlong-terminvestments can benefit from the same tax rateof 12.54 aslisted bonds Anurag Mittal, head of fixed income at UTI ME, said that fixed income as an asset class has a long way to go in India, but the bond market lacks reasonable maturity and depth. Thats why itis important to encourage retail investors to invest in profes- sionally run debt funds, he said. Neeraj Agarwala, partner, Nangia  Co said, While the ministrys intention was tax simplicity, withdrawingindex- ation benefitfordebt MFinad- vertently introduced tax uncertainty. Reinstating it would notonly restore investor confidence but also promote tax equality among various financial instruments According othelatest mai data, total assets under man- agement AUM for debt funds stood at 16,86 lakh crore, hile those of gold ETFs were 44,244.82 crore as of November 30.Asof November 30,2022, debt fund AUM was 12.57 lakh crore and gold ETFs were 820,832.77 crore. Specialty steel PLI window reopens today THE PLI SCHEME hasattracted investment commitments of 27,106 crore,direct employ- ment of 14,760 and estimated production of 7.90 million tonne of specialty steel. As of November 2024, companies havealready invested 818,300 crore andgenerated over 8,660 employments. The productscoveredbythe scheme are coated or plated steel products, high strength wear resistant steel, speciality rails, alloy steel products and steel wires, nd electrical steel The five year period of the scheme is from 2024-25 to 2030-31.n2024-25,anincen- Ketan Parekh.. HIS LOW PROFILE in the first, fewyearswas completelyincon- trast withMehtas lifestyle. But then,hisfamousMillen- nium bash in 2000, which attracted film stars, software czarsandeven diamond mer- chants, puthim infocus.Therest is history. This time, he is accused of collaborating with Rohit Salgaocar, a Singapore- based Indian descent, for exploiting insider information relatedto trades bya major US- based fund house for illegal profits.In itsinterim order, the regulator has debarred the two along with 20 others,as wellas tive of around 775 crore is expected to be released forpro- ductiondonein 2023-24. Earlier the government had reopened the application win- dowfora second time in the PLI scheme for LEDs and white goods. ThePLI schemewas frst announced in 2020 and then extended to includel4 sectors. Ithas sofar received 764 appli- cations. Of the total outlay of 1.97 lakh crore, 9,721 crore in incentives has been claimed underninesectors till FY 2023- 24, The actual investment of 1.46 lakh crore has been realised till August 2024 under these schemes, impounded 65.77 crore in wrongfulgains. That Parekh still manages tocapture the invest- ing communitys imagination Salgaonkar being the latest caseisatelling storyaboutthe dark side of Indian stock mar- kets. Butitisalso sad commen- tary on the regulations. In the US, former Nasdaq chairman Bernie Madoff was arrested within a day after his Ponzi schemewasreported byhissons in January 2009. Inless than six months,he washanded a 150- year sentence. In India, Parekh continues to find new waysto manipulatemarkets.

137. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215815.png
   Extracted Text: POSTS HIGHEST EVER REVENUE FORQ4 Foxconn sales beat view on Al demand REUTERS Taipei, January 5 TAIWANS FOXCONN, THE worlds largest contract elec- tronics maker, beat expecta- tions to post its highest-ever revenue forthe fourth quar- ter on continued strong demand for artifical intelli gence Al servers. Revenue for Applesbiggest iphone assembler jumped 15.2 to T2.13 trillion 64.72 billion, Foxconn said inastatementon Sunday. Itwasalso ahead of aT 2.1 tuillion LSEG SmartEstimate, which gives greater weight to forecasts from analysts who aremoreconsistentlyaccurate. Robust Al server demand led to strong revenue growth forits cloud and networking products division, said Fox conn, whose customers include Al chip firm Nvidia, For smart consumer elec- tronics, which includes iphones, there was roughly flattish year-on-year growth, itsaid, Totalrevenuein December alone reached T 654.8 billion, uup42.3yearonyearandthe second-highest ever level for STRONG SHOW mRevenve for Apples ere iPhoneassemblerjumped For smart 15.2 to 64.72 billion  Ryn aes the month, In the first quarter of 2025,overall operations have gradually entered the tradi tional off-season, Foxconn said of its outlook for the cur- rent quarter. Even with record high rev- enue in the fourth quarter of 2024, the sequential perfor- mance of the first quarterwill reach roughly similar levels that are average to the past five years compared with a yyearago,itshould show signif- icant growth Phones, there was roughly flattish year- on-year growth The company will reportits full fourth-quarter earnings on March 14 The company, formally called Hon Hai Precision Industry, did not elaborate. It does not provide numerical forecasts, Foxconns shares jumped 7 60last year, outperforming by fara 28.5 rise for the broader Taiwan market.They closed down 0.8 on Friday ahead of the revenue data release,comparedwitha 0.3 gain forthe benchmark index. Thecompany willreportits fullfourth-quarterearningson March 14. Former Greek PM Simitis dies at 88 REUTERS Athens, January 5 FORMERGREEK PRIME Mini ter Costas Simitis, who ushered the country into the European Unionssinglecurrencyin 2001, died on Sundayaged 88 at his summer house in the Pelopon- nese.Withsadnessandrespect, bid farewell to Costas Simitis,a, worthy and noble political opponent, but also the Prime Minister who accompanied Greece in its great national steps Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said in a statement. The government proclaimed fourdaysof mourn- ingand saidhisfuneralwillbeat the states expense, Greek state news agencyreported. Simitisalawprofessoranda reformist, assumed leadership of the PASOK socialist partyin 11996 and was prime minister until 2004,

138. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215850.png
   Extracted Text: WIDELY-ACCEPTABLE PRICING MODEL FOR RETAIL NPAs NOT AVAILABLE Challenges mount for ARCs as retail bad loans swell SACHIN KUMAR Mumbai, January 5 ASSET RECONSTRUCTION COM- PANIES ARCsarefacing new chal- lenges with the rise of retail non- performing assets NPAs. While ARCs havea proven track record in resolving corporate NPAs, they are finding it increasingly challenging tohandleretail bad loans. Absence of a widely-accepted pricing model for retail NPAs, high transaction costs, difficulty in asset valuation and limited ability to directiy engage with borrowers ata granular level pose challenges in effective resolutionof retailstressed assets. One of the major hurdles ARCsare facing is theabsence of a standardised andwidely acceptable pricing model for retail NPAs. The early offshoot of stressin unsecured retailis visibleand likely to grow further. Unlike corporate NPAs, where valuation models are based on financial statements, col- lateral and future cash flow poten- tial, retail NPAs lack similar met- rcs? said Hari Hara Mishra, CEO of the Association of ARCS in india. the fragmented nature of these PERFORMANCE OF Wi var 2072 Mar 2023 I Mar 2026 in lakh er 6.29 Fry 338  on Total dues Security receipt acquired sR issued Source RB! loans, coupled with uncertaintiesin recovery, makes it challenging to determinea fairprice This pricing gap creates a dis- connect between banks looking to offloadretail NPAsandARCswilling toacquirethem,he said. Several banks have announced plans to sell retail NPAs to ARCs. Indusind Bank said last month it would sell over 1,500 croreworth ofretailbadloans,comprising more than 1 million microfinance accounts, to ARCs. Utkarsh SFB announced selling unsecured ARCs 139 148 Be! SR, outstanding microfinance loans worth 355 crore. In November, Ujjivan SFB sold its stressed loan portfolio worth 2270 croretoanARC. ARCsare typically structured to handle large, complex corporate loan portfolios. Managing a large volume of small retail loans requires different operational capa- bilities, including robust technol- ogy infrastructure, alarge network ofrecovery agents and expertise in consumerdebt management. Individual retailloans are typi- cally smaller than corporate loans, making the cost of recovery efforts disproportionately high forARCs? saida senior official witha private ARC.Locatingand contacting ndi- vidual borrowers especallyin cases ofloandefaultscanbe challenging, requiring extensive groundwork andlegal procedures. Resolving retail NPAs requires sophisticated data analytics and borrower profiling to prioritise recovery efforts. Many ARCs lack the advanced technological infra- structure needed to analyse retail borrowerbehaviourandrepayment patterns said a senior PSB official Expetts say data analytics can playatransformativerolein esolv- ing retail NPAs. By leveraging advanced algorithms and machine Teamingmodels,ARCs can identify patterns in borrower behaviour, segment borrowers based on risk andprioritiseaccounts with higher recovery potential ARCsshouldinvestinadvanced data analytics and Al-driven solu- tions to streamlineborrower profil- ing and recovery strategies. These tools can help reduce operational costsandimproveetficiency in deal- ing with retail NPAs said Mishra,

139. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215908.png
   Extracted Text: SAT gets new member, 2nd bench likely AKSHATAGORDE Mumbai, January 5 THEMINISTRY OF FinanceMoF has, appointed justice Mayank Kumar hain, a former Allahabad High Court judge,as a judicial member of the Securities Appellate Tribunal SAT Thismove comesamidarisein cases pending with the tribunal, with sources hintingat the formation of second bench soon. Currently, theSAToperateswith threemembers,.which limits ittoa singlebench. Sebi rules permit for- mation of multiple benches, each requiring at least one judicial and one technical member.A case has been made for adding another bench for years due to rising num- berof cases. The absence of additional SAT benches has led to a substantial backlog of cases, asthe shortage of members makes it difficult to con- AT A GLANCE 1m This move comes amid risen cases pending with the tribunal, with sourceshinting at the formation of a 2nd bench soon mCurrently,the  m SAThears appeals SAToperates against orders from withthree Sebi, dai, PFRDA members, aswellas stock Giehifskstto eichongessna ill  asinglebench  depositories Justice Mayank Kumar ain stitute therequiredbenchessaid finance minister Arun Jaitley in SumitAgrawal,partneratRegstreet 2016, but litte progress has been lawAdvisors. madesince, Itseemslikelythattherewillbea The persistent delaysin estab- new notification for another SAT _ lishing additional benches have not benchsoon,whichshouldreslvethe only hindered case resolution, but issue of heapsof pendingcaseswith also undermined the efficiency of thetribunala sourcesaid. Indias financial markets? Agarwal The proposal fora second bench said. Despite pushes from the chief was first announced by former _justiceof indiaandfinanceministers, the wait or additional benches has stretched over eight years he said. ShefaliShankar,seniorassociateat Joby Mathew 8 Associates, said Right now, onebench is just not sufficient. There is an absolute need for two benches in SAT as lots of cases are pending, withthepaceofcasedispos- alsalso beingsiow Concernsremain that justice Jain maysimplybecomeareplacementfor an outgoing member the tenure of echnical memberMeeraSwarupwill end in March, said sources. If her tenure isnot renewed, theremaynot beanadditional bench, As one member is appointed, the tenure of another often ends, perpetuating acycle of vacancies. Therecent appointment of justice Mayank Kumar Jain as a judicial member offers a glimmer of hope for the establishment of an ad tionalbench, said Agrawal,aformer Sebi official,

140. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 215957.png
   Extracted Text: H-1BVISAROWANDF-1VISA How it may impact Indian students eH-1B pertains to foreign professionals working in the US, while F-1 visa is for foreign students I PROF RAJ SINGH THE PROPOSED visa restrictions undertheupcoming DonaldTrump administration could make it more challenging for Indian profession- als towork in the US. During the previous Trump administration 2017-20,strictervisa policies had Aamajorimpact on Indian ITprofes- sionals a large percentage of H-1B vvisa holders. Companies like TCS, Infosys,and Wipro were compelled to hire more locally in the US,lead- ing to higher operational costs.This uncertainty promptedmanyindian professionals to explore opportuni- ties in countries like Canada and Australia, However, this time, there ishopeforamorelenientapproach, althoughitremainstobe seenwhat willbe the H-1 Bpolicy reforms that arebeing talked about. Any modifications to visa poli- cies could present obstacles. For instance, reduced visa availability might lead to bottlenecks, espe cially during peak application peri- ods, causing longer waiting times for processing. Indian applicants, being the largest group of interna tional candidates, could face inten- sified competition forlimited slots. Universities aiming for diversity might priori ments from China State Department, have been declining. tise other applicant therewere 331,602 According to the categories, further increasing challenges for Indian students. Indian students 2025 23increase were 331,602 Indian United States Depart- ment of State, there Additionally, delays from 2022, Students in 2023, a coulddiscouragelast- surpassing Chinas 23 increase from minute applications, 277,398 students 2022, surpassing potentially reducing gm Chinas 277,398 stu- thenumberofsubmis- sions. Given that US universities rely on international students for diversity and tuition income, these institutions might push for policy adjustments to counteract such effects. Indian students Indian students playa vital role in supporting US universities,con- tributing heavily to their revenue. Despite stricter regulations, the number of Indian student enrol- ments hasbeen rising while enrol- dents. The mast popu- lar universities for Indian students areNewYork Johns Hopkins,and Carnegie Mellon. Indian professionals and stu- dents, particularly in STEM fields, remain highly regarded in the US economy and education system, driving demand fortheir expertise. Indian immigrants in sectors like technologyand healthcarealso play akey rolein fostering innovation and economic growth. Although stricter visa policies may introduce difficulties, the continued need for skilled professionals in STEM fields sustains opportunities. This demand could limit the extent of vvisa restrictions overtime. F-1visaand OPT OPTis short for Optional Practi- cal Training, a 12-month work authorisation available to F-Linter- national students who have been full-time students for at least two consecutive semesters and plan to seekemploymentintheUSintheir fields of study.Whilethereisno talk about F-1 visas as of now, changes invisa rules could alsoatfect Indian studentsaccessto OPTinternships, stepping stone for gaining work experience in the US.Thesehurdles emphasise the importance of adaptabilityand strategiceffortsby Indian students o strengthen their academic and professional profiles toremain competitive. Indian professionals and stu- dents have alternative opportuni ties. For those returning to Indi many are fuelling the countrys start-up ecosystem and contribut- ingtoits expanding domesticmar- ket, Nations with more relaxed immigration policies, Europes wel- coming stance, and prospects in Africaofferadditionalpathwaysfor Indian talent. Growing acceptance of remote work globally further enablesskilled Indian professionals to collaborate with US-based com- panies withoutrelocating. Authorisspokesperson JAIN Online, and vice-chancellorAIN Deemed- to-be-University Bengaluru

141. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 220015.png
   Extracted Text: Using partnerships, AI to enhance presence in India Learning company Pearson has started using artificial intelligence AIt0 translate some ofitsinternational blockbuster titles into Indian languages. Indiais Pearsons largest higher education market after the US and Canada, and we are doubling down onourinvestment here said Ebrahim Matthews, senior VB International Higher Education, Pearson. Recently in Indiatoforgenew partnerships with ediech companiesand educational institutions, he told FP Vikram Chaudhary that, using thepowerofALand partnerships, Pearson is making global books more suitedto the Indian market, both in terms of context and content. Excerpts Whyareyou using GenAlto translate Pearsons global books into Indian languages? Weare notsimply translating books using Al, but are making these more suitable forIndian readers. For example, Marketing Management by Kotler isa gold standard in management studies,and the newest edition wehave released includes references from India suchas the case study of Nestles Maggi in India, and how they brought backthe brandatter the noodle fiasco in 2015-16.Wehavealso worked onhow Mercedes-Benz India used Retail f the Future strategy to increase car sales. Buttranslations are also happening. We areworking on translating Conceptual Physics  one of theworlds mostrevered titles  inta Indian lanenages, RUN ee sy WEVEEXPANDED OUR TEST PREP PORTFOLIO, Maer ett Not yaaa oem Ql er Howbigis India for Pearson? Iesthethird-largest market after the US and Canada,butthe marketis priority notonly because of size, but also because of potential. We introduced our top-90globaltitles in India, with our Al study tools. With Al, we an personalise leamingat scale. Anothertoolwe have is leveraging Gen AL tohelp educators create assessments on thefly, to make their liveseasier. We form direct relations with educational nstitutions,andvia thatwe reach out to the faculty to upskill them, Howpopularis the Pearson Test of English PTE in India? The PTEisrisingin popularity stakes. In India, over 1.8 million English proficiency tests wereconducted in 2023 specifically for opportunities to study, immigrate, or work abroad. Almostall universitiesin Australia, Canada,and over 3,300 universities worldwide indluding Oxford, Harvard Business School, Yale, Stanford, University of British Columbia, among others, accept PTE Academicscores. Why did youpartnerwith Veranda Race for bank PO exam preparation? Whileweare into the test preparation market,an area missing out was bank probationary officerPO prep series. Now,its estimated that over3 millionstudentsin India prepare for the bank PO examinations annually, so thats abigmarket. Wehave created with Chennai-based Veranda a hybrid test preparation content forbank PO exam, which includes eight books and digital assessments, and is designed with mock papers that losely simulate the entrance exams for POs and clerks conducted by IBPS and SBI.With this, we have expanded our test preparation portfolio,which already includes NET, IIT JEE, TGC, and IPSC.

142. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 220036.png
   Extracted Text: RAHUL SINGH, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER, EQUITIES, TATA MUTUAL FUND The risk-reward potential looks better in large-caps at this stage Inasignificant part ofthe large cap sector the valuationshave become reasonable and growth could surprise onthe upside in FY26.Rahul Singh, chiof investment officer Equities, Tata Mutual Fund, inaninterviewto Saikat Neogi underlines that the expectations on mid- and small- caps in terms ofearnings growth areonthe higher side and could see disappointment fthereare execution challenges orpersistent macro slowdown. Whatkindofassetall strategy shoulda retail lookatinthenew year? Assetallocation can be 40 inbalancedhybridmulti asset funds,another 30-40 incore diversified categories likelarge- caps coupledorlargeandmid- capsand remainingin smallcap sectoral funds banking healthcare.However,italso depends on the investors isk appetite and goals to be achieved. Should investors nowtakea staggered approach toinvestin selectmid-and small-caps? Mid-andsmall-capsare tradingat premium tolargecaps. Some of that isjustified by the nature ofthe economicgrowth thathasbeenled bythe investment cycle recaverywhich benefits the sectors that are - equity market valuations these small-capandmid-cap funds notonlyhelp manage the dominated. However,therisk- volatility risk but alsocan take reward potential seemsbetterin advantage of that lso,the large-capsat this stage. Ina  allocation changes are done significant partofthelarge-cap aE Fes basedona formula which sectors the valuationshave removes the emotion from become reasonable and growth tty that decision. could surprise on the upside in FY26,Ontheotherhand,the . What are the pockets of expectations on mid and small opportunities available now? apsin terms of earnings growth Weare currently positive on are onthe higher sideand could the banking and seedisappointment if thereare pharmahealtheare execution challenges or sectors.The banking persistent macroslowdown, sectoris particularly Even though the capexcycle attractive froma recoveryis supportive of small- valuation standpoint, and mid-caps,a staggered  giventhat theyare approach will reduce the risk trading ata 35 inherent invaluations. discount tothe Nifty50, which isthree times Howcanhybrid funds offera theirhistorical average. balanced investment he recent regulatory approach? actionsand theReserve Byallocating fundsin Bank of Indiashawkish equityand debtbased on stance notwithstanding, weanticipategrowth drivers forbanksin 2025, eNotes ue However, we prefer private Ei sterea tt okt banks over theirpublic sector apr verat tag undertaking PSU peers due to theirsuperiorprofitabilityand Gu PSISESTELS historically low valuation gap agate compared tothelatter. UPCOMING RATE CYCLE Inthe pharmahealthcare sector,we see ablendof cyclical recovery, outsourcing opportunities, and structural growth inhospitalsand diagnostics. While valuations, especially in hospitalsand branded generics, have risen sharply, weexpect earnings momentum tocontinue, supporting these valuations and delivering compounding returns, Weremain selective, concentrating on large-cap companieswith strong earnings potential Asdebt funds offer stabilityand Given ourview onrates,we believe investors should increase the duration and looktoinvest in longerduration funds. Gilt funds and comporate bond funds maybe preferred forupcoming rate cycle. Inflowsintothematicfunds have cooled in November. Should investors nowtakea cautiousapproachto invest in thesefunds? Yes.Allthethemes like defence, manufacturing, capital goods, powerand realestateare becoming more stock specific now,which canbe better addressed through the core category diversified funds.

143. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 220101.png
   Extracted Text: Astep forward, but not without concerns ARUN PRABHU ARYA TRIPATHY Respectively head partner, technology and partner, CyrilAmarchand Mangaldas The draft rules of the data protection law, if retained as is, could present hurdles for implementation, require businesses to make expensive adjustments Moving a step closer towards the implementation of Indias maiden data protection law, the government, hasreleased the draft Digital Personal Data Protection Rules, 2025, for pub- lic consultation. Therulesmakean eamestattempt to bring proceduralclarityon somebuilding blockslikenoticetoseek consent, consent managers, retention periods for certain businesses, certaindata principal rights, andbreach notification, but notwithout keepingalive concerns aroundverifiable parental consent, obligations of signifi- cant data fiduciaries, exemptions, and implementation timelines,and reviving someissueswhichwehadhopedwere put torrest, suchas cross-border data trans- fers,and.useof algorithms. Thelong-awaited rules published fol- lowing much discussionand inter-min- istry consultation will beopen forpublic comments for at least 45 days. Once finalised, certain parts of the rules largely, dealing withthe Data Protection BoardorDPBand corresponding parts of the DPA, will come intoforce upon their publication therest oftheruleswillcome into forceona laterdate, to bespecifiedin thefinal rules. The Rules require that notice for consent be for specified purposes through adistinct document thatiseas- ilyunderstandable-This noticemust,at the least, provide descriptions of per- sonal data, thespecified purpose of pro- cessing, list goods orservices and use eases to be enabled through processing, and provide clear means for exercising data principal rights. While this emphasis on itemised details may help transparency and accountability, it will mean that busi- nesseshavetosatisfyademanding,rigid, andexpensive consent regime.Giventhis, background entitiesmaybewell advised to examine their existing notices, griev- ance redress and data principal right mechanismsto meet timelines forimple- mentation, Substantial details about qualifica- tions, functions, and obligationsof con- sent managers, who willbe avery impor- tant part of Indias new data ecosystem, have been provided intherules.Entities must be incorporated in menting reasonable security measures forpreventing databreach, therules spec- ifyalistofminimun safeguards includ- ing access control, log reports, deploy ment of encryption tools,tokenisation, masking, and requiring fiduciaries to contractually obligate processors to censure data security The rules prescribe a demanding, one-size-fits-all requirement for reporting data breaches to the DPBand data principals, without regard to the harms resulting frombreach. The report- ing is required to be done promptly and supplementedwith averydetailed report in 72 hours. Given this India, have a minimum back round, businesses networthandasuitabie Therelease ofthe ev rcedtorevisitthesuf- technology platform to raft rulesmarksan ficiency of their existing applyfortgiouaionasa importantstep measuesamund eport consent manager, On get- ting, ing tosee if they canmeet Lingregstraton tyr COMANES Fecogrising, Eee new actasdata blind interme- enforcing, and requirements. Giariesthatenable data strengthening data Another subject for principals to grant or _protectionnorms entities to worryaboutis, reject consents sought by in india verifiable consent from datafiduciaries who are iN india stents for processing conboarded with consent childrens data. Before managers. They are required to act on behalf of individuals and help exercise data protection rights, while avoiding any conflict of interest. Defaultsby con- sent managers could result in cancella- tion or suspension of registrations, in addition tothefinesundertheDPA The details provided are timely, but kick- starting consentactivities will continue to dependoninteropeabilitystandards thatareimminent. Undetlining theimportanceofimple- dealing with childrens data, entities must reliably verify age and identity of parents based on already available data, ordata provided voluntarily,or through services of a government authorised body that maintains virtual tokens including DigiLocker service providers. This seems to come with an added due diligence obligation to vet the authen- ticity of the data provided for verifica- tion purposes, which maybe financially onerous, especially forsmall entities. Significant data fiduciaries, to be identified by officers who will be appointed forthis purposeare required to meet much higher requirements. These include annual impact assess- ments and audits, with key findings going to the DPB. Much more concerningly, the rules seem to risk reviving two key concerns whichmany had felt were put torest. For significant fiduciaries, he government may require identified data to be keptin India, The rules also provide foraddi- tional rules tobespecified forallentities inrelation tocross-borderdatatransfers These currently open-ended require- ments can havea mammoth impacton the operations of several platforms. Per- hapseven more concerningly, the rules also prescribe open-ended additional due diligence fortheuseof algorithmic software by significant data fiduciaries. Greater larity on each of theabove, during the consultation process on the rules will be very helpful Thereleaseofthedraftrulesmarksan important step towards recognising, enforcing, and strengthening data pro- tection normsin India, Where retained asis,they couldpotentially present hur- dles for implementation, require bu nesses to make expensive adjustments, and may alsoresultin consent fatiguefor data principals. Given this background, effective public consultation and dia logue is critical, and businesses should use the period leading up to implemen- tation of theruleswisely both to provide their comments and to prepare for the implementation of thefinal rules.

144. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 220121.png
   Extracted Text: ETMESTART by wishingread- ers of this column a very happy, peaceful, and prosper ous new year. What could! wish forindian agricul- ture,a subject thathas been my lifelong passionand commitment? Mydream would be to see vibrant and sustainable agriculture which isclimate-resilient, increases productivity, brings prosper ity to peasants, and, aboveall,improves the real wages of farm workers who are literallyat the bottom of the economic pyramid. tis only byraising productiv- ity that India can rein in food inflation, whichhasbeen playing spoilsport lately. Vegetable inflation, at 29 and potato inflation of 679 in November 2024, hashumbled the Reserve Bank of India RBI, notallowing it to reduce the repo rate.Thatis simply tragic. The India Meteorological Depart- ment has madeit clear that 2024 was thewarmest year since 1901,and the temperatures were 0.9C higher in 2024 than the long period average. Earlier studies by scientists of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research predicted that anincreasein temperature by 1C ran the risk of reducing wheat output by 5. Wheat is likely to be the most impacted by heat spikes in Februarywhen grain for- mationis taking place. Although the Prime Minister released 109 varieties of various crops including wheat that are supposed to be climate-resilient, the challenge of takingthem from the scientistslabs to farmlands remains daunting. This is because the governments agri-exten- sion network is the weakest linkin the production system. Agri-RD as well as agri-extension needa major boost in the coming Bud- getifIndianagricultureis tobe imate- resilient. Inthiscontext,it may benoted  FROM PLATE TO PLOUGH 2025 OFFERS A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY POLITICALLY FOR THE MOD! GOVT TO OVERHAUL THE SYSTEM Reform agriculture ASHOK GULATI Distinguished professor, ICRIER thatinthelastthree years oro, theres, avwide gap in thegovernmentestimates ofwheat production and what the pri- vate trade believes. No wonder wheat prices have been under pressure, and governmentstocks meagre.Thegovern- ment is trying to supress prices by releasing wheat at about  2,300 quin- talintheopen market operations while the minimum support price for the forthcoming season is 2,450quintal, and the economic cost to the Food Cor poration of Indiaisabout 2,800quintal. This is simply dumping and anti-farmer. PM. Narendra Modi wants totransform India into Viksit Bharat by 2047, but this cannot be achieved unless farmers and farm  workers incomes improvesignifi- cantly, We cannot have Indiasprintingwhen ts feetare made of clay. The Periodic Labour Force Survey clearly hows that therealwagesin rural areas including farm wages have stag- nated and even marginally declined in thelastfiveyears.Thisshouldhave been the primary topicof constructive dis- cussion in Parliament and mainstream mediaasitimpacts thelives of millions. Instead, our Pasiiament was paralysed vera remarkon Ambedkar. Whata pity! Iflndia wants to realise thedream of Viksit Bharat, we need to find business e If India wants to. realise the dream of Viksit Bharat, we need to find business models that make our development process more inclusive Se models that make our development process more inclusive. So far, we have not been very successful in that. And whenwe failtodoit,we lean towards the revdi culture of freebies, which runs throughall political parties beitin the name ofladli behna or lad ladki,as was thecasein Maharashtras recent Assem- bly elections. Even now, the Aam Aadmi Party is promising to give 18,000 a monthto pujarisandgranthisif they are voted back to powerin Delhi. India can- not progress with such doles, nay bribes, for votes. As honest taxpay- ers, we wonder how our money is being frittered away. wonder why our Election Commission is silent on such ludicrous promises. Will the Supreme Courtstep into bringsome orderamong political partieson elec tion promises that are damaging our democracy? Mostof these are a waste of taxpayers money, who feelhelplessand cheated having paid theirdue. Coming back to reforming agricul- ture, politically, for the Modi govern- ment at the Centre, 2025 seems a golden chance as the parliamentary elections are far away. The big expen ditures in rural areas, induding agri culture, are going from the central Budget. Lookat food and fertiliser sub- sidies. Both togetherare likely to cross 4 lakh crore, Add to it the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi PM- Kisanand Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act MGNREGA, and one would easily ross 5 lakh crore out of a Budget of about 45 lakh crore FY25, All these need to be rationalised, and one can easily save at least 1 lakh crore that canbeinvested backinagricultureand rural areas for building basic infra- structure, ranging from roads and water harvesting to upgrading agri mandisand rural haats. But how do we rationalise these mega subsidies and so-called welfare programmes? The fertiliser subsidy needs tobe mergedwith PM-Kisanand given to farmers directly on a per hectare basis, while fertiliser prices need to be deregulated and freed, Micro-managing prices for each urea plant, and then informally controlling even di-ammonium phosphate prices, whenin theory theyare relatively free, isreminiscentof the socalistera of the USSR. The timidity of successive gov ernment is reflected in the fact that urea prices have not been revisedsince 201 2, whileall other commodity prices have gradually risen. Thisisnothelping either the peasantry, productivity, o the planet,asitisleading to inefficient use and massive diversions. Similarly food subsidy must be tar- geted and given in the form of digital coupons to bespent on, say, 20 nutri tious food items. The MGNREGA needs tobe dovetailed with agri-work and PM AwasYojana.Thewhole system needsan overhaul. Itcan bedone ifthe Modi gov- ernment is boldand remains focused. Ese, lam afraid, India will keep limping with occasional falls and injuriesin its acetoViksit Bharatby 2047 Views are personal

145. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 220617.png
   Extracted Text: DYSON PURIFIER HOTCOOLGEN1 No need to run an air purifier and room heater at the same time e It heats in winter and purifies indoor air all year round NANDAGOPAL RAJAN ITS WINTER TIME but pollution levels are still high due to acombi- nation of atmospheric and human factors. But most air purifiers exac- erbate the winter chill by pushing out cool drafts along with clean air. This is where a product like the Dyson Purifier Hot Cool Genl can make a difference, keeping the room air clean and pleasant at the same time, It has the trademark design from the UK techcompany witha loop-shaped bladeless fan that throws out the cleaned air sucked in by the filters t the base. Onthe front, there isan LED dis- play that gives youa lot of informa- tion, frompresent PM2.5 andPM10 levels to the trend line showing an improvement in air quality as the purifier runs. You can also see the temperature of the heater as well as some animations illustrating how the filterworks. Butthereis ust thepowerbutton ontheputifier,whichmeans youwill need to use the remote for all con- trols. The remote, as with other Dyson units, attaches magnetically to the top of the fan loop.On the remote you havethe option toadjust the fan speed increasethe tempera- tureupto37 degreesCelsius,choose autoorsleepmode,andmakethefan goanear360-degree swivel However, there isa catch here compared toother Dysonair puri- fiers I have used. While this Puri fier HotCool Gen! can be added to the MyDyson app like other units, I could not see any control panel for the same. The app just shows how-tos and FAQs about the device and lets you buy anew setof filters but does not let you controlit. This means you have to becareful about the small remote that comes in the box. Since Dysonensures that cleanair is distributed across the room, the placement ofthepurifieritselfiseru- cial. Ideally, the putifier should be KEY FEATURES 1m Fully sealed filtration AirMultiplier tech, 360, degree oscillation mReal-time LCD screen 9360 HEPA HI fiter, activated carbon fiter 15.29kg weight Estimated street price 856,900 placednearthecentre of theroomto maximise its efficiency. There is one thingyou need to keepinmindwhile buyingthis one. t requires a power plug towork,soifyourliving roam or bedroom does not have one, you will need touse a converter, which isnot alwaysagood idea Afterrunning theheaterforover 30 minutes, you can feel the room temperature also goupgradually..n the bedroom, it became pleasant enough forme to come out of the comforterinthemiddleofthenight. And doremember it can blow really cool air too, though the switchover takesa few minutes. The Dyson Purifier HotCool Gen1 isquietunlessyoupushthefan speed to maximum, And given that very few companies areas design- focused as Dyson, the device blends in well into more livingrooms. The significantadvantage of this device isinhowitsaves power,as youdont needtorunanair purifier androom heaterat the same time ifyouarein anNCRkind of situation, At 856,900, the Dyson Purifier HotCool Gent isa premium device thatdoesmorethankeeptheairqual- ityinyourroom palatable.Butit does not make sense forthosewho live in warmer parts of India, even if you struggle with some pollution. But if youre ina place like Delhi, this one can keep your room cool or warm while deaning up the airon the side.

146. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-06 220820.png
   Extracted Text: Stars who couldnt walk the talk SRIRAM VEERA IN THE END, just one Indian could get ontop ofthe diasat the presentation ceremony of Border GavaskarTrophy BG hnspritbumrah,thecapain and themanof the series. Even the man on whom the rophyis partiynamedcouldat get there as Cricket Australia hhad deemed that Sunil Gavasarwouldpresentthetro- phy onlyif India retained the BGT. Somewhat apt end toa dramatic, butchaotic tour. Theserieshadstartedwitha question of whatwould happen ifsomething happens to Bum- rah Luckily for indi, Bumrah hadnotonlydecidedtoimmor- talischimselfintotheimagina- tion of Australian public with themost enthralingstring of performances through the Series, but also managed to inspire the rest of the bowling attacktoanextent Aidedbythe veryfalliblebatting unit of Aus- raliaIndiahad somehowhung on tillwhat would be the final dayof theserieswith achanceto retaintheBGT. Onwhat tumedouttobethe final day that dreaded question was answered and India sans Bumrah couldnt produce that mini-miracleneeded todefend abelow-par162.Itssomething that more than Australia, India needstodo, RohitSharmatsbest performancecame in frontofa camera mike when he spoke abouthowheisntdoneyet,and how youngsters arent still ready to be the captain. Unfor- tunately,forhim,hecouldntrev upavworthy performance with thebat and thathurt India, Unfortunately, the key men of Indian teams best perfor- mancesseem to have comein frontoftthe microphone, it has tobe said.Or ina team huddle, Virat Kohli, the acting captain overtheweekendintheabsence oftheinjured Bumrah, tiedhis best to inspire his bowlingand fielding uni,butfailedathisjob asa batter through the series, barringthattonin2nd-innings at Perth. Anything outside off, beit rom backoflength or full andwide, proveda kryptonite. Wedontknowwhat he has toldtheplayersinsidethedress- ing room, but one of the best lines from the head coach Gau- tam Gambhircamein the post- series pressconference. Ultimately itsneithermy team nor yout team, its the nations team. belevethat,as! said, thereare veryhonest play- ers in our dressing roomwho knowhowhungry theyareand whethertheteamcan movefor- ward with their contribution Butyes,as farasmy questions concerned, my biggest respon- sibilityisthat Ihavetobefairto everyone in the team, Not only oneortwoindividuals?

147. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 204954.png
   Extracted Text: AT 6.4 IN FY25, IT WILL BE A 4-YEAR LOW FIRST ADVANCE ESTIMATES Growth engine loses steam PRIYANSH VERMA New Delhi, January 7 INDIAS GROSSDOMESTICproduct GDP is set to slow down consider- ablytoregisteragrowth rate of 6.4 in 2024-25 compared with 8.2 in 2023-24, the National Statistics Office NSO said on Tuesday releas- ing the first advance estimates. The slowdown ison account of adecline inannual rates of expansion across manufacturing, MEXSEE ining and ser- GROWTH vicessectors BOOSTERS, However, the PLEASE  year-on-year grow- PAGE19 thrate,afour-year low,isalsocausedin good measurebystatistical factors  net taxeson products are seento grow just 5.9 in FY25,compared Wwithasteep 19.19last fiscal The growth in gross valueadded GVAin2024-25is seenat 6.4,the same as GDPat 7.2, GVA growth wasmuch lower than the headline growthnumberin 2023-24, TheNSOsgrowth estimateforthe curentfiscal computedviaextrapo- KEY NUMBERS CE  Consumption and investment Ccha,yo 7 116 eee ea. yey 8 fe comumaton e eo moor 5 consmpton 8 aFaed  Eile 9 ivestvent 22  a 73 20 a 1 rns advance E 6.4 estimates Growth dynamics atconstant prices,  chs, 29  HaFv2s 28 2  Growth E required in vanras cpp Primary Secondary Tertiary Fest advance estimates To meat the fist advance estimates lation of lastyears estimates,and in economicreport for November. the six years to 2024-25 from the tthe light of indicators and data A 6.4 growth in FY25 would pre-pandemicperiodto the present sourcesuptoDecember,islowerthan require6,7 economicexpansionin willbejust 4.93. theReserveBankof Indiaslatestpro- thesecondhalf of the year,compared jection of6.6,and6.5forecastby with 6 in the first half. It also Continued on Page 12 the finance ministryinthe monthly _ impliesthat theaverage growth in Related report on Page 2

148. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205020.png
   Extracted Text: AYANTIBERA Bengaluru, January 7 MICROSOFT ONTUESDAY said that it plans to invest 3 billion fabout 25,700 crore in India overthenext twoyears tobolsteritscloudcomput- ing and artificial intelligence Al infrastructure, marking its single- largest expansion in the country to date, Chairman and CEO Satya Nadella made the announcement during the Bengaluru leg of the Microsoft Al Tour underscoring the techgiants commitment tomaking IndiaanA-frst nation, Lam excited to announce this significantinvestmenttoexpandour AnurecapacityinIndia Nadellasaid. Microsoftcurrently operates three datacentreregionsin Pune, Mumbai US giant plans to train 10 million people in new-age tech skills by 2030 Microsoft to invest 3 bn in its AI-first India mission and Chennaiywith afourth scheduled togolivein 2026, The investment is part of Microsofts broader global expan- sion, including 80 bilion allocated for Al-ready data centres in FY25, morethanhalf of which willbe spent inthe US. The expansionaligns with the strategies of other tech giants, such as Google, which last year announced 1-billion investment inThailand fordatacentreand doud infrastructure, Microsofts infrastructure plans inIndiaalsoextendtoadvancing the capabilities of its Al ecosystem. Nadellashoweased enhancementsto Microsoft 365 Copilot, a suite of autonomous Al agents designed to streamline enterprise workflows. Theseagentscan independently per- EXPANSION MODE ON Microsofts efforts have r already reached aidainvestmentis TERRE eds, parofMicrosots mel DL, million, broader global Peer untes expansion etc Cy individuals, topping target reine mCurrently, it. feieue eed of participants. cpentesteedts 65 incer centre regionsin 7. the initiative are pune, Mumbai and worenard Chennai, witha fourth 74 from tier- set to golivein 2026 Wand it cities formtaskssuch asmeetingfacilita- _Thisislikeaddingan as the interface for Al, tion real-time translationand sum- extra team mem- making interactions matisation. He urged organisations berto assist with intuitive and effec- to build customised Al solutions tasks? Nadella tive? he said. using Copilot Studio,alow-codetool explained. In addition to forcreatingbespoke Al agents. Copilot serves infrastructure investments, Microsoft plans to train 10millionpeopleinA IskillsinIndiaby 2030s part ofits Advantalge India programme. This initiative, part of Microsofts Global Skills for Social Impact charter, aims to ensure equi- tableaccesstoAltrainingacrossurban andruralareas.Microsoftseffortshave already reached 2.4 million individu- als sumpassingiits initial target, with 6590of participants beingwomenand 749 fromtier-Hlandll cities. Indias rapid growth as an AL innovatorisunlocking opportunities nationwide, Nadella said. Our investments in infrastructure and skillingreaffirmourcommitmentto making India Al-firstand ensuring benefits reachall? he added. Continued on Page 7

149. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205034.png
   Extracted Text: Four major paint makers in race to acquire AkzoNobel VIVEAT SUSAN PINTO Mumbai, January 7 SOME OFTHE countrys top paint makers, including Berger Paints, JSW Paints, Indigo Paintsand Aditya Birla group,which forayed into the sectorin 2024,are in therace tobuy majority stake inAkzoNobel India, sources have told FE. AkzoNobel Indiaisthe countrys fourth-largest paintscompanywith an estimated market share of 7. Rivals Asian Paints, Berger Paints and Kansai Nerolacare estimatedto have market shares of 50, 209 and 159, respectively, in the domestic paints market valued at 65,000crore 7.8 billion, accord- ing to industry experts. The Dutch parent of AkzoNobel India, which owns a nearly 75 stake in the company, has been looking to offload its shareholding inthe firm at a deal valued at 2.5- 3 billion 20,000-24,000 crore, eurces said. However players are. DEAL BOOK 2.5-3 bne Potential deal value being looked at by AkzoNobel Dutch parent Peres grabbing majority stake With 7 marketshare, AkzoNobel is Indias fourth- largest paints maker 1.2- ers 14bn  Theamount_ Alggypb Promoters of alzoNobel are interested players may looking at apossible India exit as. bewiling to pay the competition growsin sector willing to pay around half the ask-_ munication from our parent com- ing priceat 10,000-12,000 crore _ panyaboutanysuch event or nego- 1.2-1.4 billion sourcessaid. tiation the company said. Ina note to the exchanges on Calls to Abhijit Roy, MD  CEO of Tuesday, Akzo Nobel India said it Berger Paints India, elicited no could not ascertain thecomectness _ responseat the time of going topress. of the news.We have not received any specific informatianarenam- Continued on Page 7

150. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205105.png
   Extracted Text: GOVTTO SET UP 1,250 DRIVERTRAINING SCHOOLS IN 2 YRS New safety features for heavy vehicles soon  Minister says need toconsider limiting drivers working hours FE BUREAU New Delhi, January 7 TO PUTA checkontisingroad acci- dents, the government is consider- ing installation of three new safety devices on heavy commercial vehi- cles that will stop drivers from doz ing offatthe wheeland have provi- sions for emergency braking and vehiclestability,road transportand highways minister Nitin Gadkari said on Tuesday. The devices that are expected to be made mandatory are electronic stability control system, emergency braking systemand driver drowsi- nessalertandsafetysystem.Thecon- sultation process or theinstallation of these devices is on and some inputshavecome fromstakeholders. Following the consultation process, a draft notification will be issued before all the details are finalised, Gadkari told reporters after a two-day meeting with the transport ministers of states. He also said that there was a need to look at limiting the number of hoursheavycommercial drivers can drive to 8 hours though it has its ownset of challenges. Around 180,000 people are killed on Indian roads annually, of which 33,000arekilled in accidents where trucksare involved. The minister also announced a scheme for setting up 1,250driver Road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari at a meeting with his state counterparts in New Delhi on Tuesday. Gadkari said the training schools over the next two yearsand fitness centresacross the country for which the central gov- ernment will providefinancial sup- portof4,5 00 crore Thestates will nothave tocontributeany funds for them, barringland. The centres coming up in TierL cities would be getting support of upto 17.25 crore, inTier Il cities 5.5 croreandin Tierll towns 2.5, crore, These new schools would help meet the shortfall of drivers which stands at 2.2 million. The schoolswillbe able tochurnout2.5 million drivers? Gadkati said, Toencoungeacircular economy in the auto sector, the minister said that thenumberof scrappingcentres may cross 100 from 82 now and in some time every state would have at least one scrapping centre. The gov- ernmentisalsolooking at mandating government is working towards the nationwide rollout of a scheme to provide cashless treatment to road accident victims  useof recycled materials by the auto industry, he said. The meeting also discussed timalinesforintroduction of BS VII norms and the revised guidelines for pollution under con- tol certificates werealso presented. The ministry of road transport and highways is also working on thenationwide rollout of ascheme that will provide cashless treat- ment to road accident victims across he country.Thepilotsofthe schemeare already functional and based on the learnings it will be extended tomore states, Thescheme will coverhospitali sation expenses of up to 7 daysora maximumof 1.5 lakh peraccident per person.All hospitals, whether government orprivately owned, will becoveredbythe scheme.Incase of hit-and-run incidents, 2 lakh would be given per person,

151. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205117.png
   Extracted Text: Economists say consumption growth estimate optimistic Slackin urban demand persisting PRIYANSH VERMA New Delhi, January 7 THE FIRST ADVANCE estimates of the National Statistics Office NSO have projected private final consumption expenditure PECE to grow by 7.3 in FY25, but economists feel the numberis too optimistic, given subdued urban demand. The main indicators of the con- sumptionsofarindicatethatskewed nature of the consumption growth iscomectingsomewhatwith thepick- upinruralrealwages. However, the sladkin urban demands persisting asindicated by commentaries from some FMCG companiesandalso the decline in imports to the tune of 1.34 in FY25 India Ratings and Research Ind-Ra notedin areport. The PFCE estimate seems tobe on the higher side. Wage growth has been lower this year mainly on the urban side, savings have depleted,  high foodinflationstaysachallenge noted Dhiraj Nim, economist, ANZ Research. Nim sees PFCE growing between 6.59and 6.8 in the cur- rentfinancial year In H1,PFCE had grown 6.796meaningin H2 thesec- tors growth is likely tobe 7 8.1n FY24, PFCE grew merely 4, largely ddueto tepid rural consumption. Pree ead iteeceanetckat Rens ict healthy kharif ee taro Prong eee acho Pon eon Thisyeartheabove-nommalmon- soon is seenaidingrural consump- tionrecoveryTheNSOhas estimated theagrisectorsGVAto grow 4.59in H2,upfrom 2.79 in Hand 1.496 FY24. According to D K Joshi, chief economist, Crisi, Rural consump- tion, whichconstitutesabout60of Indias total private consumption, will receive a boost from healthy harif production and promising prospectsfortherabiseason. Emkay Globals Madhavi Arora saidthatprivateconsumptionisseen remaining tepid, as real urbanwages continueto dectine,with othercyci calheadwindsin the form of a fad- ingterms-of trade benefits on lower commodity pricesb tighterlending CHEF ECONOMIST, EMkKay GLOBAL as real urban wages continue to decline, with other cyclical headwinds standards and 0 weaker exports. Looking atthe first advance esti- mates analysts say the Indian econ- omy remains resilienton the back of thestrong festivedemandand steady improvement in economicactivity, but some downside risks to the pro- jectionsremainSomedownsiderisks to these estimations emerge due to global headwinds, especially the threat of tariff war, said Madan Sab- navis,chief economist, Bank of Bar oda.Investmentand consumption continue to remain critical factors supporting growth in the coming months, he said. The focus would nowmovetowardsthe UnionBudget, comporateperformanceandthe RBIS ratededision tospurgrovth.

152. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205148.png
   Extracted Text: NSDCstarts pan-Indiasurveyto Petroleum product exports rise 3 identify gaps in skill initiatives MANU KAUSHIK New Delhi, January 7 TO DESIGN GOVERNMENT schemes etterand to aid organisa- tions inmappingthe demand-sup- ply gap of skilled manpower, the National Skill Development Corpo- ration NSDOhasbegunapan-India survey with consumer intelligence firm Axis My India. As part of the survey, Axis My India willreach out to government bodies, educational institutions industriesand thegen- eral public to gather essential data onthe current state of various skill development programmes. The partnership aims to iden- tifydata-driven gaps inkeyskilling initiatives, measure their out comes, and enhance beneficiary participation rates particularly in underserved regions,accordingto an NSDC statement. NSDC CEOVed Mani Tiwari told FE thatthesurveywill beconducted over thenext threemonths,fllow- ing which a report will bereleased. We will be targeting 0.45 million youth aged between 18 and 35 years.Inaddition, we will reach out to nearly 4,500 representative organisations of different sizes, and theywill representalargenumberof sectors. Through the survey, we will knowtheneeds of the organisations, and theaspirations of the youth. If weare able toalign the industrys needs with the youths aspirations, the skilling programmes will get more effective he said. According to NSDC officials, the survey will serve as a reference point for future evaluations and assessments. Joint efforts will be made to design and implement frameworks thatfocusonmeasur- ing the effectiveness of training programmes and theirlong-term outcomes. We will likely update thisdata every yearthrough annual surveys. The cost of the survey will be jointly borne by NSDC and Axis My india,Tiwari said. Estimatesby TeamLeaseDegree Apprenticeship suggest that India is projected toconfront apotential skilldeficitof 30-32 million people bythe end of FY25and 47-49 mil- lion by FY27. Sectors such as healthcare, real estate, textile, and automobile will face the biggest impact in talenterunch. Besides capturing data and feedback, the NSDC-Axis My India collaboration will run advocacy campaigns aimed atraisingaware- ness about the importance of skill development for reducing overall unemploymentrate. ARUNIMA BHARADWAJ New Delhi, January 7 INDIAS EXPORTS OF petroleum products in Decemberincreased by 3.1to 1.37millionbarrelsperday against 1.33 millionbarrels perday in the corresponding period of 2023-24, according to data from energy cargo tracking firmVortexa. The exportsalsoincreased by4.5 from 1.3 1millionbarrelsper dayin the previous month, Africa emerged asthe top desti- nation for the countrys exports in December, while supplies to thetra- ditional importers  Asia and Europe  declined significantly Asthe diesel arbitragefrom Asia to Burope remains closed, product exports to Europe arelacklustre in December said Xavier Tang, mar- ketanalystat Vortena. India exported 349,736 barrels per day of petroleum products to Asia last month, down 33 from 523,052 barrels per day in Novem- ber. Exportsto Europe declined by 79 to 33,121 barrels per day, the lowest in overfouryears. However, there has been an AFRICA AVENUE Exports of petroleum products mec 2025 mNov2024  Dec 2024 barrels per day Asia  Europe Source Vartexa increase in product exports towards West Asia, likely due to increased refinery maintenancein the region, Tang said. India primarily supplies petro- Ieum products to countries in Europe and Asia. The country has emerged asa major fuel supplier to Europein the past fewmonthsafter European countries started boy- cotting Russian supplies post its invasion of Ukraine. The exports to West Asia increased by 52 to 278,155 bar- relsperdayin Decembercompared tothe previous month, Union minister for petroleum andnatural gas Hardeep Singh Puri on multiple events has said that there is no shortage of oil in the market but ifthere are geopolitical tensions, it mayincreasethe costof freight forshippers. The country exportsa variety of goods via the Red Sea including petroleum products. However, the traffic diversion from the Red Sez and around the Cape of Good Hope owing to geopolitical tensions over the region has added 10 days to Asia-Europe journeys while also increasing fuel costs, the govern menthadearlier sad. Meanwhile, the domestic con- sumption of petroleum products in April-Novemberincreasedto 157.5 million tonne from 152.4 million tonnein the same period in FY24, according to data from the petro Ieumplanningandanalysiscell The growthis majorly driven byariseir demand for diesel, aviation turbine fuel, nd liquefied petroleum gas. The countrys demand for petro eum products, including jet fuel, diesel and LPG, islikely to grow to239 million tonne in FY25, as per esti mates by the petroleum planning and analysis cell.The countrys con. sumption of petroleum products stood at 233 million tonne lastyear.

153. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205336.png
   Extracted Text: Telcos may seek time for DPDP compliance JATIN GROVER New Delhi, January 7 TELECOM OPERATORS SUCH as Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and Reliance fioare likely to seekan 18- month timeline to comply with the provisions of the Digital Personal Data Protection DPDPActafter the notifcationofits rules sources aid, The operators are expected 0 include this request in theircom- ments to the government on the draft rules for implementing the Actwhich were released last week. The extended timeline isbeing sought to allow telecom operators to modify their customer applica- tion forms CAFS and adapt their existing technological frameworks to manage user consent regarding data usage and processing. Given the massive volumes of personal data handled by telecom operators, they are expected tobe dlassified as significant data fidu- Giaries underthe DPDP Act. Currently.elcosutiisepersonal data for sending marketing mes- sages, making sales pitches, and generating app-based offers. They also share data with third partiesin bundled services, such as offering OTT subscriptions or digital pay ment add-ons. Under the new Act, such practices will require explicit 18-MONTH WINDOW LIKELY mTelecos can seek alonger transition time to implement. ey changes to their customer application form   era poorer for a declaration ifthe SIM card is being bought for a child user consent and the implementa- tion of new technical mecha- nismsnecessitating significant operational changes. In a bid to ensure verifiable parental consent tomanage data of minors, the telecom operators are expected to make changes to their CAFs, which would require parents to declare that SIM card is being taken fora child. Obtaining explicit consent for data collection and third-party sharing, especially in bundled ser- vices like OTT subscriptions and digital payments, requires major operational changes, said Jidesh Kumar, managing partnerat King Stubb  Kasiva, Advocates and HNon- compliance could result in penalties ofupto 250crore renin Piers See oer Attorneys. Kumaralso highlighted theneed forenhanced security pro- tocols,giventhat telcoshandlesen- sitive data such as Aadhaar-based eKYCand biometrics Telecom operators will also have to ensure mechanisms to manage dataprincipalrightssuch asaccess, correction, and deletion of data which willbe particularlychallenging given theirlargecustomerbase.Non- compliance could result in penalties ofup to 8250 crore, imposed by the Data Protection Board. Anexecutiveat a telecom firm said they arenot much concerned about verifiable parental consentas the SIM cards are taken by people above 18, Besides, ifa minor would use SIMcardson parentsID,thenitwill automatically be from the consent of parents. In the CAF,a column or two can be added asking people if theyare taking sim cards for them- selves or forminors. Sucharita Basu, managing part- nerat AQUILAW, said, Data locali- sation norms may apply to telcos, likely impactingintemational all- ing and messaging services. If the draft rulesare finalised in theircur- rent form, the impact on interna- tional roaming serviceswill needto beassessed. The draft rules prohibit the transfer of specificpersonal ortraf- ficdata outsideIndiaif identified by the government basedon recom- mendations from a newly consti- tutedcommittee, The government said the com- mittee framework, emphasisingits necessity to address sector-specific data localisation needs, which are essential for citizens safety. Telecom operators shouldcon- ductathoroughassessmentof their data processingactivities toensure compliancewiththeDPDP Act. This includes reviewing consent mech- anisms, data securitymeasures,and procedures for handling data prin- cipal rights said Rahul Sundaram, Partner, IndiaLaw LLP.

154. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205402.png
   Extracted Text: TCS may see boost in margins amid muted revenue growth in Q3 URVI MALVANIA Mumbai, January 7 TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES TCS, set to announce its October- December earnings on Thursday, is expected to report modest rev- enue growth for the quarter. How- ever, analysts anticipatea boost in margins, supported by operational efficiencies and a favourable cost structure, According to Bloomberg esti- mates, TCS Q3 FY25 revenue is projected at 864,754 crore,reflect- ing a modest 0.8 sequential growth. Ebitda is expected to rise 3.7 to 17,3511 crore, while net profit is estimated at 12,541 crore, markinga 5.8 quarter-on- quarter increase, Analysts attribute the muted revenue performance toseasonal factorslike furloughsandreduced contributions from Bharat SancharNigam BSNL. Nuvama Research predicts a mere 0.1 growth in RECOVERY IN BFSI TCS QS estimates  cr mQBFYZU mQ3FV2S Byer chg   ora alg a2 84 Sma 69 259 70 Ebitda margin  Net proift  margin 36 tual Estimates berg continues to strengthen  into additional industry verticals such as hi- tech, whichis recover- ingahead of schedule, Motilal Oswal said in constantcurrencyC  PREVIEVV  itssector preview. terms and a 0.8 decline in dollar rev- enue. JM Financial highlightsan anticipated 60 mil- lion drop in revenue from the BSNL contract. Despite thesechallenges,recov- cry trends in the BFSI Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance sectorin NorthAmericaand growth inotherregions offerapositive out- look. Recovery appears to be expandingbeyondUS BFSIwhich Despite subdued revenue growth, oper- ational efficiencies are expected to bolstermargins. Motilal Oswal pro- jectsa40-basis-pointexpansion in Ebit mrgins, citing factors such as investmentsin talent development, training, and the absence of wage hikes this quarter. Similarly, JM Financial anticipates a 20-basis- point margin boost, aided by lower contributions from thelow-margin BSNLdeal

155. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205433.png
   Extracted Text:  RAJESH JEJURIKAR, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, MAHINDRA  MAHINDRA Fully constrained on Thar Roxx, XUV3XO capacity Mahindra  Mahindra MM on Tueslay announced the prices ofthe top-end version of the soon-to-be launched BE 6 26.9 la and XEV 930.5 aki. Booking of both the madelswillopen on February L4and deliveriesare sated for early March. Rajesh Jejurikar, executive director, MM also told Swaraj Baggonkar that MMistoallyconstrained on capacity for Thar Roxx and XUV3XO. Excerpts At what capacity willyou start the production of thetwocars? The capacityforboth thecarsis 90,000 perannum.Whatwehave shared today5,000 permonthwe thinkis theright paceatwhichwe wouldliketorampup ina waywe stabilise quality,customer experienceand stabilise service capability at dealerships. Wewill man the production lines to pace weareramping upbutthe investment forinfastructure has happened fora higherlevelof capacity Wehavetotestthe subppliercapacityaswellalong with quality Whatkindofvariantmixdo you expect forboth models? Thisis thehardest thing topredict. Welook for different inputsandoneof themistheaddtocart featurewhichwestarted afew years back Thisis thefirst timewe arelaunching two productsat the sametime Wedecided togo forthe highest variants, backed by a simpleand affordable finance option, Thecomponentsthat havegoneintomaking the EVsaremore expensive than theICE models. Howwillthis impact your margins? Thepercentagemarginsonthe EVsaregoing tobelesserthanthe ICE because theGSTratesare different Wewill sartcalling out ow EV marginandICE margin separately. EV marginswill be dramatically different forthesame uunitmargin Overa period of ime wewould expect the unit margin fortheseproductstobesimilarto the ICEmargins. _MMis outpacing the growth logged by therestofthe industry andat that paceyouwillrunout ofcapacitypretty soon. Weareworkingoncapacity on some of our products Wearetotally constrained oncapacity for Thar Roxxand XUV3XO.Wehave some planstoincreasethat over the next 6-8monthsbut fearthatwonttbe enough tosolvethewaiting period Arethereplans for fresh investments fornew capacity? Atsomestagewewilldoit. We have not puta timelinetoit. Whathappenedtotheclectric Tharthatyou showcased last year? Itwillbelaunched with other EV vehicles.ltisnotaconcept which wwillnot getexecuted. Werwill talk aboutwhenwetalkabouttherest of the portfolio. Butitissomething wewill do. Havewe exploredthe possibility ofbringing these EVsinthe ICE version? Itisnotthateasyto bringitin Ice. Whywas thereareductionin the investmentby British International Investmentin the EVcompany?? Wedidnotneedmorethan that justa balancinggap Itwasa mutual decision.

156. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205512.png
   Extracted Text: Festive  wedding boost for jewellers RAGHAV AGGARWAL New Delhi, January 7 JEWELLERY FIRMS ARE setto report a strong year-on-year revenue growth forthe Octo- ber-December quarter, driven by strong wedding and festive demand,according toanalysts andcompany updates. Consumption remained buoyant, supported byhigher realisations amid sustained gold price increases, higher number of auspicious days, anda gradual shift from unor- ganisedto organised trade fol- lowing the sharp 900 basis points bps cut in gold import duty said Srikumar Krishna- murthy, senior vice president  co-group head, corporate ratings, ler. The FY25 Union Budget had reduced the import duty on gold from 159 to 6, sig- nificantly boosting organised players. In its quarterly business update, Kalyan Jewellers on Tuesday reported a 39 year- on-year increase in consoli- dated revenueduring Q3FY2 its India operations posted a 419 revenue growth, sup- ported bya 2496 rise in same- store salesgrowth SSSG-Titan Company also posted an impressive performance in an update released on Monday, with its domestic jewellery segment growing 25 y-o-y, driven by strong consumer demand during the festive sea- AUSPICIOUS START   Rapid store expansion into tier-2and tier-3 cities has also contributed to the revenue growth of jewellery majors Analysts expect revenue growth for jewellery majors to range between 25 and 30y-0y forthe quar m Eamings before   interest, tax,  Kalyan Jewellers on Tuesday depreciation, and reported a39 yearonyear _ amortisationand profit increase in consolidated after tax are likely to revenue during QBFY25 in grow by approximately itsupdate 20  18 respectively son. Robust trac- Motilal Oswal est tion during Diwali matesa 31 rise, translated intohigh Earnings before single-digit buyer interest, tax, depre- growth along with ciation,andamorti- double-digit ticket zation and profit size growth, the aftertaxarelikelyto company said nits  PREV Py  stow by approxi- update. mately 20 and Jewellery com- 18y-o-y,respec- panies benefited from strong _ tively. SGandsustainedconsumer Despite strong topline demand? saidareportby Moti- growth, some challenges per- lal Oswal. Rapid store expan- sist. Retailersadopting formal sionintotier-2andtier-3cities hedging for gold purchases hasalsocontributedtotherev- may acetemporarylosses due enue growth of jewellery totheimport dutycut,result- majors. Analysts expect rev- ing in margin contraction. enue growth for jewellery Additionally sequentialfinan- majorstorangebetween 25 cial performance may remain and30y-o-yforthequarter. flat, as Q2FY25 had already NuvamalnstitutionalEquities reported robust revenue projectsgrowthat 24, while growth.

157. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205527.png
   Extracted Text: Premium play JioStar raises bouquet prices by 18 CHRISTINA MONIZ Mumbai, January 7 MAJOR BROADCAST NET WORKS have announced a price hike for their channels at the start of thenewyear, with players like ioStarincreasing theirratesby 18.Asaresult, JioStar now has the highest channel bouquet rates. Other players, including Zee Enter- tainment Enterprises ZEEL and Sony Pictures Networks India SPNI,have alsorevised their rates, with an average increase of 10. An 18 price hike is unusually high, the largest in the last seven years,according toKaran Taurani, senior V-Pat lara Securities. He notesthat most broadcast players typi- cally raise theirbouquetrates by 7-9 annually. This is a smart strategy, particularly forthe newly-merged entity, asit is the mostlogicalwayto drive up revenues. Both Via- com18 and Disney Star had been incurring losses from their premium sporting con- tent, which they had been offering for free, Taurani added. This could indicate that tthe brand is aiming fora pre- mium positioning, leveraging properties such as Star Gold Network, Colors TV, and Star Sports said an official froma mJioStar has broken the 219 ceiling for two individual channels, Colors Kannadaand MaaTV, raising their subscription rivalchannel JioStar has also unveiled 83 channelpacks comprising 134 channels  85 of which are standard definition, 44 high definition and five free channels. The value pack for standard definition is now 110,up from the combined Star India 260 and Via- com18 834 Hindi pack rates. JioStar has unveiled 83 channel packs offeringa total of 134channels,indluding 83 in standard definition, 44 in high definition, and five free channels. The value pack for standard definition channels isnow priced at110, upfrom the combined rates of Star India 60 and Viacom18 834 for their Hindi packs. JioStar has broken the 19 ceiling for two individual channels,Colors Kannada and Maa TY, raising their sub- scription rates to 25. These channelsareavailableonlyon ana-la-carte basis. SPNIs Hindi bouquet rate has increased from 48 to 854, while ZEELs Hindi chan- nel bouquet pricing has risen from47 to 853, There wont be a major churn in subscribers either, especially not in urban mar kets. Even though networks like Zee and Sony may lose more subscribers than lioStar, the impact of the price rise will be positive from a rev- enue standpoint, observes Taurani. The only negative fallout of the new pricing could be interms ofadvertiser interest,sinceeven the small- est drop in viewership could keep advertisers away.

158. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205545.png
   Extracted Text: Office space leasing peaksi in 2024 PRESS TRUST OF INDIA New Delhi, January 7 DEMAND FOR OFFICE space across eight major cities was atanall-time high during last year, beating previoushighin pre-COVID year 2019,accord- ingto Knight Frank. During 2020 and 2021 calendar years, the office space demand had plunged due to the outbreak of Covid pandemic, Total office space absorp- tion duringthe 2024 stood at an impressive 719 lakh square feet, surpassing the previous peak achieved in pre-pandemic 2019 by 19. On a year-on-year basis, office space transactions in 2024 recorded a 21 growth. compared to 2023, This stellar achievement reflects Indias economic resilience, sustained GDP growth,robust domestic con- sumption, and the countrys increasing prominence inthe global economic landscape, real estate consultant Knight Frank India said. The exceptional demand for office spaces underscores the confidence of global and domesticbusinesses in Indias thriving business, it added. On the office market, pre- mium managed office space operator Ananta Karma Tattva India founderand CEO Nidhi Marwah said, The Indian economy has been an island of calm ina turbulent world, tt isacruciblemoment forIndia, Extrapolate any industry trend- from GCC to ITES to BFSI to domestic firms and flex spaces, India is becoming the office of choice aswell as theworkforce for the world. larwah said there isa need to jolster an enabling environ- ment from the discipline of ourreforms to the quality of ourofferingsto ridethis wave toitsutmost potential. Asper the Knight Frank data, the gross easing of office spacein Bengaluru rose 45 to 181 lakh sq ft in2024. The gross __leasing increased in Delhi-NCR by 2596 to 127 lakh sq ft while Mumbai sawa 40 growth to 1104 lakh sq feet. InHyderabad, thedemand increased 17 to 103 lakh square feet lastyear. Chennai, however, reported a decline of 25 to 8 lakh square feet. In Pune, the gross leasing increased 19 to 80 lakh square feet.

159. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205616.png
   Extracted Text: RUPEE REPORTS BIGGEST SINGLE-DAY JUMP IN MORE THANA MONTH Re, stocks snap losing streak ANUPRESKSHAJAIN  KISHOR KADAM Mumbai January 7 THE RUPEE SNAPPED the five-day losing streak and recorded its biggestsingle-day gainin morethan amonthon Tuesday, asreportssug- gested that US President-clect Don- ald Trumpislikely tobelessaggres- sivewith hispolicies on tariff.Other Asian currencies, too, gained between 0.2 and 0.9 vis-2-vis- the greenback. Therupee,afterhittingan intra- daylowof 85 80,settledat85.72, agninof 11 paise,or0.12 overthe previous clase. The dollar index fll 0.34t0 1079.Areport by TheWash- ington Poston Mondaysaid Trumps aideswere exploring tariff plans that would apply to every country, but only cover certain sectors deemed critical to national or economic security, promptinga slumpin the dollarindes. Thisisa temporary relief asthe market is largely anticipating fur- therdepreciation intherupeeowing to a strong dollar in coming days,saida forex traderwitha pri- vatebank Another positive for the rupee was prices of crude oil which fell for the second straight session, Brent Crude,theglobal oil benchmark, fll to 76.36 abarrel as the optimism overdemand due to growth, partic- ularly from China, faded. Equity indicesgainedon Tuesday afteradecline of 2.59 over the last BARRING IT  TECH, ALL SECTORAL INDICES GAIN NIFTY Ee SENSEX Intra-day, January? TOP SENSEX GAINERS. Intra-day, January 7 0.39  78,199.11 4  gain 0.30 23,707.90 Close el Close 8 a pe A ig -23,679.90 previous close Previous close eS Open peer 77,961.99  RUPEE VS DOLLAR 78,019.80 Intra-day, January 7 open inverted scale 8972 Pang rapes 2 2 g2 335 a  8 25  3 5 5 85.78 Previous close g z 3 Open e565 e.  2a? 2 ovo sessions. The Sensex rose 234 Bank Nifty gained 0.56. being downgraded by lefferies due points, or 0.30, to close at Investors wealth surged by to concernsoveraggressive compe- 7,199.11, partly driven by value 2.96 lakh crore to 2441.75 lakh _ tition and higherdscounts. buying in index heavyweights. The crore. ONGCemerged asthe top Nifty NSE Nifty rose 91.85 points, or Foreignportfolio investors were gainerrsing 3.79 toatwomonth 0.39 023,707.90. net sellers forthe third consecutive high afterCLSA rated the stock asa Theoverall marketbreadthwas day, offloading shares worth _high-convictionoutperformer citing positive, with two gainersforevery 1,491.46 crore, while domestic a likely boost toeamings this year loser. Broader markets outper- _institutionalinvestorswerenetbuy- After market hourson Tuesday, formedthebenchmarks, with the ers, purchasing equities worth the government released the first, BSE midcap and BSE smallcap 1,615.28croreaccordingtoprovi- _advanceestimateforthecurrent fis- indices advancing 0.77 and sionalexchangedata, calyear,projecting the GDP growth 1.74 respectively. Reliance Industries contributed _ to slow to afour-year low of 6.4, Baring!Tandtechnology,allthe _morethanhalfoftheSensexsgains, down from 8.2 in FY24. sectoralindicesended in the green. adding 132 pointsasitsshareprice Though the growth projections, Energy, oil  gas and industrials rose 1.86 to 1,240.90, Tata _alignwith economists forecasts, it werethetopperiommers,risingupto Motors, witha 2.25 gain,wasthe _ remains to be seen how the equity 1.559, whileITandteck declined top Sensex gainer. Zomatowasthe and currency markets react to this, 0.3606and 0.51,respectively.The _ topSensexloser falling 4.59 after development on Wednesday.

160. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205836.png
   Extracted Text: JPMorgan last major US bank to quit Net- Zero Banking Alliance ALASTAIR MARSH.  SAUELKISHAN. January 7 JPMORGAN CHASE  Co.isleaving major dimate finance group, becoming the last of Wall Streets biggest banks to walk away. The largest bank in the US has decided to quit the Net-Zero Banking Alliance NZBA, it said on Tuesday. JPMorgan willcontinue to work independentlyto advancetheinter- estsofourfirmourshareholdersand our clientsand remain focused on pragmatic solutions to help further low-carbon technologies while advancing energy security accord- ingtoan emailed statement.Wevil alsocontinuetosupportthebanking and investment needs of our cients who areengaged inenemgy transition and in decarbonising diferent sec- torsofthe economy TPMorgansexit marks thelatest blow to NZBA.In December alone, the alliance parted ways with Citi With the departure of JPMorgan, only three US lenders  Amalgamated Bank, Areti Bank and Climate First Bank  remain as members of the NZBA, compared with about 80 banks in Europe, according to the alliances website group, Bank of America, Goldman Sachs Group and Wells Fargo  Co. So farin January, Morgan Stanley has said its quitting the group. Departures to date have been con- centrated in the US, against a back- drop of intensified attacks by the Republican Partyonwhatitssought tocharacteriseas woke capitalism. WithPMorgans departure,only three US lenders  Amalgamated Bank, Areti Bank and Climate First Bank  remain as members of NZBA, compared with about 80 banks in Europe, according to the allianceswebsite. Banks thathaveleftNZBAsaythey remaincommitted tohelping dents transition toalow-carbon future. the defections that have hit NZBA follow similarexitsacross di- mate alliances in other corners of thefinanceindustry.In 2023,a sub group for insurers saw amass exo- dus amid litigation threats.And in 2022,an equivalent group forasset managers parted ways with Van- guard Group, the worlds second- largest money manager. 1PMorganisaleading financierof bothhigh-andlow-carbon energy.n 2024, the firmwas the top-ranked banker for oil, gas and coal deals, as wellasa top-five provider of green bondsand loans,according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the banks latest climate report,chief executiveofficer Jamie Dimon said PMorgan seeks to enable indusive, sustainable eco- nomic growth because its good for usinessAs society seeks to avoid the worst impacts of climate change, italso requiresaffordable and secureenergytothrive. Scaling zero-carbon energyisa critical path forward BLOOMBERG.

161. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205900.png
   Extracted Text: Exim Bank raises 1 bn via overseas bonds PRESS TRUST OF INDIA Mumbai, January 7 EXIM BANK ON Tuesday saidithas raised 1 billion about 8,570 crore through an overseas bond issuance at very competitive rates. The policybankwillbeusingthe money tofund itsongoingand new initiatives acrossthevrorld,accord- ing toastatement. Managing director Harsha Ban- garisaidthemoneyhasbeenaised at the tightest spread ever Achieved from India?-Thebankeap- italised on a strong demand momentum to achievea final pric- ing of US treasury plus 19 with a negative new issue Managing director scribers areasset and concession of 0.05,  HarshaBangari fund managers, 18 thestatementsaid.  saidthemoneyhas _arebanksand16are TheDepartmentof heen raised at the insurance, pension FinancialServicesDFS tightest spread funds and public sec- termed itasafantastic hive 05followedbyprivate start to the year by verachieved banks and others, the Indianissuersinglobal __from DES said. pital makes vith The lenders EXIM raising the money in the dollar-denominated publicbondissuance. Thestatement from EXIMBank said the half of the investors was from Asia, nearly a third from Europe, the WestAsia and Africaand 118 from the US. Nearly two-thirds of the sub- deputy managing director, Deepali Agrawal, said the issuewitnessed apeakorderbookof 2.7billion, courtesy the quasi-sov- ereign nature of the bank, strong credit profileand Indias inclusion inP Morgan emerging bond index. Given the quality book-build and the large book size,we elected tomove quickly toachievea signi icant price tightening by 30 basis points from the initial price gui ance, she added. Exim Bank has been rated as Baa3 Stable by Moodys, BBB- Positive by SP and BBB- Stable by Fitch The DIS said the transaction demonstrates the confidence of overseas investorsin theIndiastory. Exim Bank provides financial assistance to exporters and importers, and functions as the principal financial institution for coordinating the working of insti- tutionsengagedinfinancingexport and import of goodsand services.

162. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 205931.png
   Extracted Text: TREMORS FELT IN NEPAL, BHUTAN AND PARTS OF NORTHERN INDIA 126 killed, 188 injured after multiple quakes jolt Tibet JOE CASH GOPAL SHARMA Beijing Kathmandu, January 7   ATLEAST 126 people were killed And more than 188 injured as six earthquakes,including a powerful onemeastring 7.1 on the Richter scale, rocked Tibet in one hour on Tuesday, news agency Associated Press reported. The earthquakes shook buildings in many areas in India, Nepal and Bhutan. The magnitude 6.8 quakes epicentre was about 80 km 50 miles north of Mount Everest, the worlds highest mountain. Tremors also shook buildings in neighbouring Nepal, Bhatanand india, The impact was felt across the Shigatse region of Tibet, home to 800,000 people. The region is administered from Shigatse city, the traditional seat of the  suse Panchen Lama, one of 4 the most important fig- sera sms itstruckat905am0105 GMT. workers have been despatched to ures in Tibetan Bud- Footage broadcast on state the affected areas, Xinhua said, dhism. degrees Celsius 21 degrees television CCTV showed rescuers Some 22,000 items including Many homes in Shigatse city Fahrenheit late on Tuesday,and _performingCPRonaninjuredper- tents, coats, quilts and folding were reduced to rubble, video were forecast to drop as low as son and soldiers erecting tempo- beds have also been sent, it said, released by Tibet Fireand Rescue minus 16C 3 F overnight. rary shelters. China closed the Villages in Tingri, where the showed.Rescue workerssearched The China Earthquake Net- Everest region to tourists after the _ average elevationis around 4,000- through the debris of a ruined works Centre located the epicen- quake, Xinhua reported. Mount 5,000 metres 13,000-16,000 home and pulled out one injured tre at Tingri county, known asthe _Everestisapopulardestination for feet, reported strong shaking dur- person, it showed. northern gateway to the Everest _climbersand trekkers but winter _ ing the quake, which was followed Adding to the misery forthose region, at a depth of 10 km 6.2 _isnota prime season forclimbers _ more than 150 aftershocks with lefthomeless,temperaturesinthe _miles-The U.S.Geological Service and hikers in Nepal. More than magnitudes ofupto 4.4. region had fallen to minus 6 putthequakes magnitudeat7.1. 1,500 firefighters and rescue REUTERS

163. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 210015.png
   Extracted Text: Apple faces tough Jan as China weakness, tariff risks weigh  BLOOMBERG. January 7 APPLE SHARES HAVE had a chal- Tenging start to 2025, as investors fret over weakness in the critical Chinese market. The shares fll for five straight sessions before Mondays bounce, in the longest losing streak since April. Theyve been pressured by China smartphone data, which analysts said pointed to weaker iPhone shipments, and a Reuters report that Apple is offering di countsin China The drop indicates that investors who had looked past a lukewarm response to the artificial intell sgence-infused iPhone and ta related risks under the incoming Trump administration may have lost patience. itincreasingly seemslikeChina justwont be thereasanaventiefor growth at Apple, given an overall weaker smartphone market, com- petition from Huawei, and the risk of tariffs said David Wagner, port- foliomanageratAptus CapitalAdvi- sors. Wagner said he wouldnt be surprised ifthestocksrecentweak- nesscontinuesthroughouttheyear, given itselevatedvaluation. Shares are down 2.20 so farin January, compared witha gain of 2.6 fortheNasdaq 100Index.And its performance is crucial to the overall marketAppleaccounted for about 996 of the SP 500s 234 rallylastyear, makingit the second- biggest contributor to index gains behind Nvidia . The drop comes The shares fell for five straight sessions before Mondays bounce, in the longest streak since Ay Eee after the shares rose more than 30 in 2024. The stock hit arecord high in December,when investors were betting that Apple will ulti- mately become awinnerin Aland that Chief Executive Officer Tim Cookwould be abletoovercomeany tariffthreats, But concerns about Chinahave fomented negative sentiment in recent sessions. The report of dis- counts on iPhones in China reflects how market conditionsin the coun- try have been plagued by aslow- downin consumerspendingas well asincreased rivalry from Huawei according to Bloomberg Intell gence. Meanwhile,theChinesedata on smartphone shipments isnot a good sign forthe iPhone 16 cycle, analystsat Barclays wrote, referring to the first model of the smart- phoneto offer Al features.

164. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 210033.png
   Extracted Text: Meta embraces community notes REUTERS January 7 METAIS ENDINGits fact-checking programinthe US and replacing it with a Community Notes system similar to that on Elon Musk- owned X, the Facebook parent said on Tuesday. The Community Notes model will allow users on Metas social media sites Facebook, Instagram and Threads to call out posts that are potentiallymisleadingandneed more context, rather than placing theresponsibility on independent fact checking organizations and experts.Experts,likeeveryone else, have their own biases and perspec tives. This showed upin thechoices some made about what to fact 7 .  R met?  check and how. A_program incandcl to loft tae Sen teemeatooltocenor Meta sl Aictdded hati cons over aneyeintomanagecaneataces ipetinaetetpendedothe pop ahere we art wating too Many mistakes, fstating our war sndtoneficn geting a te wayofthefreeexpression wesetout toenable. Company adds three board members, including UFC boss META HAS APPOINTED three new members to its board of directors, including DanaWhite, the president and CEO of Ulti- mate Fighting Championship and akey figure in the orbit of incoming President Donald Trump. Thesocialmedia company isalso adding auto tycoon john Elkann and tech investor Charlie Songhurst, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg said. Tapping White to join the board could be seen as Mark Zucker- bergs latest maneuver to improve ties with Trump, who was once banned from Facebook After Trump won re-election in November, Zuckerberg dined at the president-elects Mar-a- Lago club in Florida and Meta donated 1 milion to Trumps inauguration fund, Other Big Tech companies such as Amazon have donated similar amounts aP

165. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 210052.png
   Extracted Text: Microsoft to invest 3 bn in India Puneet Chandok, president of Microsoft India and South Asia, added that the initiative would equip Indias workforcewith essen- tial, future-ready skills for a com- petitive global marketplace. We aim to unlock possibilities forthe coming decades and provide com- munities access to the compute they need to thrive in the Al era,he stated. Microsoft also signed an AI memorandum of understanding MoU with SaaSBoomi, a leading Indian B28 startupcommunity.The partnership seeks to upskill over 150,000 startupemployees, attract 15 billion in venture capital fund- ing and create 200,000 new jobsin the next five years.Thiscollabora- tionaimstofosterthe emergenceof 50 unicorns and soonicorns in Indias Aland SaaS ecosystem. Furthermore, Microsoft Research MSR Lab announced plans to accelerate innovation through partnerships with digitally nativebusinesses. MSRscollabora- tions, such as a joint effort with Physics Wallah on math reasoning, highlight its focus on applying Al research to practical business solu- tions, Nadellas visit to India also included a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Mon- day, where he pledged Microsofts support for Indias Al mission and digital aspirations. Indias devel- oper community and entrepre- neurial spirit make it a pivotal playerin the global Al landscape, Nadella said. Microsofts latest announce- ments aim to position Indiaat the forefront ofl innovation, blending infrastructure, skills development and collaboration to harness the potential of a 1.4-billion-strong nation. The diffusion rate of Alin India is remarkable? Nadella said. Weare committed toempowering every person and organisation to achieve moreinthis excitingAlera. he added. Tax giveaways  Paint makers in race to acquire AkzoNobel in Budget... This would bring down effective tax rates forthe taxpayers he noted. The first slab can be from 4-7 lakh instead of 3-6 lakh now,and other slabs would get adjusted accordingly.To boost consumption, especialy in urbanareas where the majority ofincome taxpayers reside expanding slabsatlowerandmiddle- income levels, thatis,up to 20 tax bracket should beconsidered Kapa- dia said, Unlike corporate taxes,per- sonal income tax receipts have been growingatrobustrateinrecentyears and will ikely exceed the target in FY25.Gross PIT before devolution receiptsrose 2540to87.41lakh crore in April-November of FY25 against requiredrateof13.69toachievethe annual target of 1 1.87 lakh crore. In a clarification to exchanges, Berger Paints said it considers vari- ous proposals for inorganic growth and diversification as a matter of routine exercise. There is no material event, information and development in this matter to disclose, Berger Paints said. Both Aditya Birla groupandSW Paints declined comment when contacted. Indigo Paints was not immediately available for com- ment. Shares of AkzoNobel India losedtrade6.14upat 3,632.70 apiece on the BSE on Tuesday, as investors lapped up news ofits pos- siblestake sale, Berger Paints closed trade up 0.96at 451.35 apiece, While Indigo Paints settled up 1.21 at 1,356.80 apiece on Monday. Sources point to growing competition in the domesticpaints market for the global promoters of AkzoNobel looking at a possible India exit. If the deal fructifies,it may trigger anewround of consoli- dation within paints, which has seen the entry of new players aver the last few years, Besides SW and Aditya Birlagroup,companies such asPidilite Industries, best known for its Fevicoland Fevikwikbrands, and PVC pipes maker Astral hav centered thedomesticpaintsmarke in India inrecentyears. More com panies such asK Cement have als stepped into paints in the last twe years. Inanoteon the domesticpaint market, brokerage Elara Capita noted that the battle forineremen tal market share within paints wa expected to intensifyasbothestab lished players such as Asian Paint and Berger and new entrants suck as Birla Opusincrease theirdisteib ution effort. mallerdealers itsaid are prioritising margin-focusec partnerships,whichis putting pres sure on established players. Mos established players said they ar increasing trade margins and pro motions tominimise the impacto! competition on their business,

166. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 210150.png
   Extracted Text: Challenges in state budgeting ADITYA SINHA The writers apublic policy professional Xacityasinho0os There must be stronger incentives for states to improve their fiscal planning and bring off-budget borrowings into the formal fiscal framework FREDERIC BASTIAT ONCE remarked, Govemmentis the grea fiction through whicheverybodyendeavourstoliveatthe expense of everybody else. Nowhere is this fiction more evident than in Indias sub-national public finance, where the illusion of infinite resources drives chronic overspending, mounting debts, and polticalshort-termism Sub-national fiscal responsibility legislations FRLs wereintroduceditoimpose discipline, but theirdesign andenforcementvarywidely across states reflecting atroublinglackof uniformity, While some statesadhereto stringent rules and demonstrate fiscal prudence, others exploit loopholes or ignore long-term consequences in favourofimmediatepolitical gains. This stark variation, coupled with economic mismanagement, creates a dangerous cocktail of fiscal instability. Without consistent standards and stronger accountability, Indiarisks plunginginto a fiscal disaster where one states excesses could spilloverand undermine the nations economic foundation. The Reserve Bankof India RB in its latest State Finances Report,hasreviewed sub-national FRLs,andthereportisworth read fiscaltransparencyisa comerstone ofgoodgovernance Whilethe Uniongov- ernment has made significantstrides in fiscal transparency, state governments have also adopted measures to enhance their fiscal disclosures. Key principles includepublishingaccessible Budget doc- umentslike Budgetata Glance and dis- closing ignificantchanges inaccounting standardsor fiscal practices Statessuchas HimachalPradesh Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, and Rajasthan standout forexplicilyreportingthesedis- closures. Some states  Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, and Rajasthan  havelegislated theactuarial disclosure of pension liabilities forthe next decade, enhancing fiscal foresight. However, uni- formity in revealing other sensitive fiscal data suchascontingentliailties andoff- budget borrowings,remainschallenging. Supplementarygrants,commonlyusedto manageunforeseen expenditures aredis- closedbymoststatesasmandatedbytheir FRLs,thoughactual ulisationoften falls short of estimates. More importantly,the RBthas evalu- ated state Budgets through the lens of the Public Expenditure andFinancialAccountabil- ity PEFA framework. It Persistent tax. However, it isimportant to adnowl- edge the significant impact of Covid-19 during period I, which disrupted eco- nomic activity,created volatilityincentral transfers andadded unprecedented chal- lenges to fiscal management. While sys- temicissues likeresource constraintsand infrastructural bottlenecks remain criti- athe pandemicundeniablyexacerbated udgetinginefficienciesat thestatelevel ThePEFA scores forrevenue expendi- ture also reveal significant deviations fromBudgetestimatesacrosskey sectors. In sectors such as urban development, agriculture and allied activities, rural development, and energy, moststates consistentlyfell intotheDcategoryin both analyses Budgetsusing 31 Underperformance period land forexample, performance indicators underscoresthe _ in agriculture and allied grouped under seven pil- activities, only Tamil Nadu lars, focusing on Budget reliability and trans- inability of states to effectively plan maintained an A, while most other states, such as parencyof publicfinances. andexecute Bihar, Gujarat, and Uttar PEFAscoresrangefromA capital budgets Pradesh, failed to achieve toDbased onhowcloscly n 6venaCSimilaly,inurban actual receipts and expen- dlitures align withBudgetestimatesover athree-yearperiod. The PEFA scores across 20 major Indian states highlight systemicissuesin budgetingaccuracy, particulariyin rev- enue receipts. During period 2016-17 to 2018-19, states such as Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh,and Odishaachieved A, butbyperiodll 2019-200 2021-22no state managed tosecure evenaB, with 16 states, including Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan, fallingto aD.This decline underscores weaknesses in fiscal forecasting and budgeting processes, including poorestimation of keyrevenue componentslikestategoodsandservices development, no state securedanAorBin period Il,eflecting systemic inefficiencies in planningand execution. Further, given the freebies beingdoled out across states, the fiscal marksmanshipunderthiscategorymight deterioratein the future. The PEFA scores for capital expendi- ture across Indian states reveal asharp decline in fiscal marksmanship, with fewerstatesachieving crediblescores in period II compared to period 1. While stateslike Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, and Odishaachieved A in period,only Jharkhand and Telangana achieved it in period Il, and the number of states fallingto the lowestD category surged to 13. Sectors such as urban develop- ment, irrigation, transport, and water supply saw widespread deterioration, with states like Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, and Maharashtra consistently scoring D Even traditionally stable sectorslike medical and public health failed to secure meaningful improvements. While the Covid-19 pandemic undeni- ably disrupted fiscal planning and exe- cution, the toll on capital expenditure reflects deeper structural weaknesses, including poor programme manage mentand prioritising fiscal rule compli- ance overlong-term investment. This persistent underperformance under- scores the inability of states to effec- tively plan and execute capital budgets, compromising critical infrastructure development across the board. The underperformance in capital expendi- tureis particularly conceming giveniits significantly higher economic multi- plier than revenue expenditure. Toaddressthe persistent gapsinstate- level budgeting and fiscalmarksmanship, there must be stronger incentives for statesto improve theirfiscalplanningand bring off- budgetborrowings into the for- mal fiscal framework. The Finance Com- mission could playa pivotal ole by link- ing grants andallocations to improved Budgetraliability better fiscal disclosures, and adherence to FRL. By tying these grants to measurable reforms, states would have a tangible incentive to en- hancetransparencyand accuracyin their budgeting processes. Without such con- ditions itwillbe difficult tonudge states, toward the next generation of reforms to strengthen subnational FRLs. Views are personal

167. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 210413.png
   Extracted Text: Revolutionising HE SIGNIFICANT INCR EASE in cross-border trade andinvestmentflows due to globalisation is also foster- ing global integration ofthe legal sectorThistrend presentsboth chal- lenges and opportunities for the tradi- tionally conservative sector worldwide, including in india. Many trade treaties and agreements, in addition to facilitating trade, have begun incorporating provisions for the cross-border movement of legal person- nel. The General Agreement on Trade in Services of 1995 includes provisions for themovementof services, including legal Similarly, several regional agreements have established frameworks to support this, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement 1994, the ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations Framework Agreement on Services 1995, the Comprehensive Economicand Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union 2016,etc. However, these treaties allow for the cross-border movement of legal person- nelonly on atemporary basis and under regulatory oversight Amid thenear-total unification of markets the EU stands out in this regard, The EU introduced the Lawyers Establishment Directive Direc- tive 985EC to encourage greater inte- gation of theunions legal market. In India, the issue of cross-border movement of legal personnel arose through litigation Itwasallegedthatcer- tain foreign law firms had established offices in India inan unauthorised man- ner. This was challenged in the Bombay and Madras High Courts. Ultimately the asereached the Supreme Court of india, Which passedajudgmentin 2018stating that only advocates enrolled under the provisions of the AdvocatesAct,19.61,are permitted topractiselawin India Nevertheless, the court permitted for- eign lawyers to make casual visits to DHRUVA KUMAR SINGH Chief contrallerof accounts, ministry oflaw andjustice, Supreme Court, and ministry of corporate affairs India to provide legal advice under afly in and fly out arrangement and instructed the BarCouncilofindiaBCIto cestablishrulesonthismatter.In 2023,the BC! introduced regulations allowing for- eign lawyers to vist India and offerlegal advice based on the principles of reci- procityandtheflyinand fly out model, subject to specificconditions. Regulatorybodiesworldwideare grad- uallyrecognising theneedto acilitatethe cross-border movement of legal person- nel, China has chosen not to leverage its substantial eco- nomicpower to exclude for- ceign legal firms. Instead, it hasfocused onenhancingle-  With afew exceptions, the legal education In response, organisations suchas the International Bar Association have also developed standards over the past two decades, covering areaslikeinternational arbitration, legal ethics, andtheindepen- dence of thelegal profession. These stan- dards aim to bring greater uniformity to legal practices worldwide, despitethereg- ulatoryand culturaldifferencesthat exist across jurisdictions. The traditional egal ecosystembased onnational boundaries is facing signific- ant disruption duetotherise of legal tech Technologies such asartificial intelligence Al and borderless cloud- based data rooms are not galeducation and fostering systemoften _only challenging national experience-sharing toimp- carries a regulations but, in many rove the competitiveness of instances, questioning fun- itsdomesticlegalsector.Ace- Perception of damentallegalprinciples.1n ordingto one estimate, aro- mediocrity this new paradigm, clients, und 250 foreign legal firms operatein China. Similarly, the Brazilian BarAssociation successfully addressed opposition froma segment of the bar to foster greater collaboration between foreign and domesticlaw firms. The growing internationalisation of legal practiceis anundeniablereality.The rise of global legal hubs in cities like Sin- gapore, Dubai, and London is evidence of thistrend. Legalissuesrelated to environ- mental, social, and govemance compli- ance,data privacy, digital laws, interna- tional transactions, etc. are gaining increasing importance.Addressing legal issuesin these areas necessitates coordi- nated transnational responses, who once played a central rolein the traditional legal framework havebeenreplacedbysers There requestionsastohowAlvilalign with national Ins and how thealgorith- mic assumptions used by compuitersto doliverlegal outcomeswillbescrutinised These are just some of the issues thatthe sloballegalcommunitymustaddress. In this context, it is essential to acknowledge thatthe legal ecosystem is notoniybecoming inrensinglyglobalbut itisalso undergoing aprofoundtransfor- mation Theglobalmarketforlegalworks exceeds 1.1 trillion asizecomparableto hatof thegiobalinformation technology senvices market. Historically, approx! legal services mately 40ofthishas beenconcentrate in North America. This regional domi nance is gradually shifting towards fast growing economies suchas India, China, WestAsia,and latin America Thissurgeis driven by factors such as rapid economic growth, ongoing diversification of economies, and even complexitiesofreg- ulatory framework. To keep up with the evolving land scape,the Indian legal sectorneedsa qual ity revolution. One of the key areas for transformation islegal education. With fewexceptions,thelegaleducation system often carriesa perception of mediocrity. This underscores the need for acurricu Jum overhaul that includes exposure te foreignlaws,legal tech,andothermodem elements. Foreign laws, for instance, are generally not taughtat the graduate level inIndian lawschools. Like any other profession, the legal field cannot afford to remain low-tech. While some lange law firms have starte using Al, data analytics, nd similar tech nologies forcaseanalysis and record man agement,andthegovernmentispromot. ing digitisation through initiatives like e-Courts, technological literacy among lawyers remains limited. Rather than viewing legal tech as a threat to the pro fessions viability, its adoption should be encouraged by incentivising lawyers te offer smarter, tech-driven values tc clients. In this context, fostering techno. logical innovation to provide smart solu tionsforclientsandimproveaccesstojus tice is crucial. In addition, there is significant potential for establishing state-of the artinnovationcentres within the frameworkof public-private partner. ships,particularly forlegal start-ups. The Indian legal sector shoul embrace these trends and competition theybringandlead the wayintheseconc quarter of thiscentury. Views arepersonai

168. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 210525.png
   Extracted Text: GEETIKA SRIVASTAVA FOR YEARS, THE 2916-billion Indian marketing industry has reliedonanabundance of personal data to craft targeted campaigns, often without explicit user con- sent. Clearly, there was significant disconnect between consumers and their personal data and how thecompanies that collectt,useit. The proposed Digital Personal Data Protection DPDP Rules have the capacitytodisrupt this framework, handing theleverto the consumer, Brands must now focus on creat- ing value exchanges where con- sumers willingly share data because they see tangible benefits, not ust becausetheyhave no other choice says Surendra Singh, CEO, Brand Street Integrated. The push forstringentdatapro- tection laws mirrors global trends akin to European Unions General DataProtectionRegulationGDPR that protects the privacyand secu- rity of personal data. While laws exist, the real challenge is not ust theircreation but howwelltheyare implemented and enforced? says Chandan Bagwe, founder  direc- tor of CCom Digital Time to rebuild trust The overwhelming consensus among marketers is that the DPDP Act and Rules will not only reshape how individual brands communicate with their con- sumers but will challenge the broaderadvertising ecosystem. To start with, the Rules mandate a shift from implied consent to explicit opt-ins, Pre-checked boxes and vague consent mecha- nisms wil be things of thepast. By prioritising userprivacyandgran- ular consent, it will encourage marketers to focus on genuine leads. Marketers and advertisers are far more likely torely on intel- PRIVACY REGULATION The cost of consent eThe proposed DPDP Rules challenge marketers to rethink strategy Pee oy Fate ees ts Brae sc Cena ligent as opposed to mass data, says Dhruy Suri, partner at PSA Legal. With granularconsentlev- els,only genuinely interestedcon- sumers willopt-in, improving the probability of conversions Contextual advertising will probablybea bigger dealnow than hyper-personalisation. In other words, there could be a consider- able shift away from targeting customers based on their profiles andinstead focus on what theyare already searching for or consum- ing online. Additionally, withdrawing consent must beas seamless as grantingit.Thatwill force brands to redraw the line between pri vacy and commerce.Marketers thrive on data to achieve maxi- mum reach. The proposed DPDP Rules will require the industry to adapt by fine-tuning and updat- ing their systems, notes Raj Ramachandran, partner at SA Advocates  Solicitors. Seemingly straightforward forms that collect basic informa- tion, such as names and email addresses, willfallunder the Acts purview. Once collected, con- sumer data must remain confidential and used for the Een euReeiccg Poe Kenecnd eC Peo ec iE aes stated purpose. It cannot be shared without consent and must be deleted afterthreeyears, Thataddsanother layer of oper- ational complexity, says Chan- dan Bagwe,founder  director of Com Digital Not just complexity, for mar- keters, these requirements trans- lateinto additional costs.The cost of storinginformation, maintain- ing inventory across systems like email, WhatsApp, and websites, and categorising it accurately is significant. Even the deletion process requires either automa- tion or manual intervention, which incurs additional expenses. Security throughoutthelifecycle of the data, will be paramount says Bagwe. The financial burdenaside, the Actwill trigger marketers to think out of the box. It will prompt busi- nessestoprioritisefirst-party data, leveraging loyalty programmes and direct customer engagement over third-party data. This shift could level the playing field for smaller firms, allowing them to compete through meaningful cus- tomer relationships rather than sheer data volume.A comprehen- sive ground-up approach will lay the foundation for effective long- term compliance,adds Mayuran Palanisamy,partner,Deloittelndia Ambika Sharma, founder  chief strategist, Pulp Strategy, says whilesmall businesses might face some early hurdles in the form of high compliance cost, in the long run, these regulations will foster trust. This shift will compel brands to build deepertelation- ships with consumers by focusing on transparencyand offering gen- tine value? she says Going forward, brands must align with what Hemal Majithia, founder,Oktomind,referstoas the CARE framework of communica- tion  comprising clarity, accountability, relevance, and engagement. Marketers can no longer rely on vague consent or indefinite data retention. The DPDP Act asks us to clearlycom- municate why were collecting data, how long well store it, and how it benefits the user. Ths isnt just compliance its about foster- ing trust, he asserts. The three- year data retention limit will push them tofocuson the value of expe- riences and products, which ulti- mately builds deeper customer trust, sums up Pathik Patel, founder, D2C brand Fit  Flex.

169. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 210721.png
   Extracted Text: a a Growth engine runs out of steam THAT SENTSAlossof 1, also likely to be sharply higher Guoguowthowrthe peroa, HOW THEY STACK UP ihinyenrascomparedtoa02 against an average annual 24...this impacted net taxes Sector-wise GVA  cha, y-o- growth of 6 growth too headded In April- The NSO. has estimated Afi,forest fishing Construction Financial realestate, ete November of 2024-25. the nominalGDPexpansionforthe 23 II 47 v2 joa expenditure on majorsubsi- current year at 9.7, against  dies was up 15 on year. 10.5 projectedin the Union FY24 J.u Fy23 Ferrey PVR 8.4 Whereas, in 2023-24, the full Budget 2024-25. This means FY25 MM s.5  a years outlaywas down 229. fiscal deficit wouldbemargin. PAE eS FAB Despite demand. drives allyhigherthan the estimated Manufacturing Trade, hotels, transport ete Pubic administration ete beingrelativdysimilarin 2023. level of 4.94 of the GDP, if Fy2u other Budgetnumbershold or FY23 fill-2.2 24 and 2024-25, the overall eo  Fv23 SEE 2.9 growth thisyearis much lover, dueto the element of discrep Fv26 M78 ancies between demand and budgeted level of receipts. Fs ss FOS. FY23. 9 FY24FY2S.  FyDS. outputsideestimates22.14 However, the revisedesti- _FAE FAB FAB  Fae 91 Jaldh crore in FY25 compared to matesof deficits to be unveiled 1.29 trillion in 2023-24, India inthe Budget 2025-260n Feb- capitalexpenditure may dowa 2024-25,comparedwith 99in _H2, the sectoris seen growing _Ratingsand Research Ind-Ra ruary 1 couldstillbeatorless bit, while some tax giveaways 2023-24. Government final at 6.1, helped primarily by _ saidinanote. thanthe BElevelsAccordingto aimedatboostingconsumption consumption expenditure is a likely recovery in domestic GDP output growth last official sources, the Centres _isexpectedintheBudget. estimated to growat 4.1 this demand conditions,they said. year was 4.2 percentage points capital expenditure willlikely _ Tobesure,even asthe real year, compared with 2.5 in With above normal mon- higher thandemand-side esti- fall shortof the FY25 target of GDP growth is seen to plum- 2023-24.However,manyecon- soon, agriculture growth is mateywhilein thecurrent fiscal, 21111 lakh crore by 60,000 met hisyeartothelowestlevel omistshaveexpressedconcems expected to improveto 3.8 the headline figure is 2 pps crore to 1 lakh crore. since the pandemicabyss,the _ aboutthe H2 growth prospects in 2024-25, after slowing lower.Netexports,onthe other With a capex shortfall of principalexpenditurecompo- We think H2FY25 may face down to 1.4 in 2023-24.In hand, isexpected toadd 1.7 pps. 60,000crore against Budget, _nentofGDP,privatefinalcon- downwardpressure,implyinga H2,thesectorisseengrowthat _togrowth in 2024-25.InFY24, fiscal deficit would fiscalcome sumption, isestimatedto grow downside risk to FY25 AE of 4.5 as against 2.7 in H1, _ithadcontributednegatively to inat4.8goingbytheadvance at 7.3 in 2024-25,compared 6.4, amid weaker participa-__ with healthy reservoir levels _ growthby about 2 pps. estimate of nominal GDP.That with 4 in 2023-24, That tion of private economic and favourablesoil moisture _Meanwhile,the shortfallof signalsarathertight Budget,as_ shows an average annual agents, said Madhavi Arora, conditions likely supporting 2.26 lakh crore in nominal, the year-on-year growth of growth of 5.4 since 2018- _leadeconomist,EmkayGlobal,, rabioutput. GDP is likely to translate to a Budgetsizeisanywayprojected 19. Analysts, however, cau- Themanufacturingoutput _Nettaxesgrowthin2024-_lowergrosstaxrevenueGTRby tobe85overyear,evenbelow tioned that while the latest isexpectedto expandby5.3 25 is seen sharply lower on 2.32lakhcrore.said DKSrivas- thenominal GDPgrowthrate. annual growth rate shows an for 2024-25, accountofhighbase19.1in tava, chief policy advisor, EY Asperthemedium-termfis- uptick, theinstantconsump- __Unevenconsumerdemand 2023-24,andslowermomen- India. However, part of this calconsolidationroadmap,the tion momentum in the econ- and cheaper imports from tumin indirect tax collections _ shortfall maybe made up byan fixaldeficitrequirestobebelow omy, as manifest in various China owing to overcapacity so far said Abhishek Upad- increase in buoyancy. For the 4.5 in 2025-26. Itiswidely high-frequencyindicators, _thereimpactedtheprofitabil- yay, senior economist, ICICI first eight months of FY25, cexpectedthat the Centre would Gross fixed capital forma- _ityofdomesticmanufacturers Securities Primary Dealership growth in GTR is 10.7, he stickto this planin the coming tion, a close proxy of invest- in the first half, said HDFC I-SECPD. said. The Budget has pegged Budget.The pace of increasein ments,isseento grow6,49in Bankeconomistsinareport.In __Theoutlay on subsidiesis__ GTRgrowthat 10.8,

170. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 210747.png
   Extracted Text: Vi planning phased 5G rollout, says CEO FEBUREAU Mumbai, January 7 VODAFONE IDEAIS preparing foraphased 5Grollout,andwill launch new tariffplansin2025, theteleos CEO AkshayMoondra wrote to Vi customers in and emailed newyear greeting, He added that through its partnerships with Ericsson, Nokia and Samsung, the telco wwillprovideasuperchargednet- workexperience,asitsetsabout executive its three-year invest- ment plan fornetworkupgrada- tion. The futureis here! We are preparing for thephasedrollout of 5G, bringing you blazing fast speeds and unparalleled experi- ences Moondrasaid, Vodafoneldeahaspreviously stated thatitwilllaunch 5Gser- vvices by March 2025.The man- Rear BVoanae cp taroy agement has yettogive details on the strategy of therollout,or pricingstrategyfor 5G.Moondra has in the past indicated that Vodafone Idea will need to look atpricingfor5G differentiythan itspeerssinceitisalate entrant. Analystsandindustryexecutives believe it may look at capped or  metered 5Gplansandpacks. He said in his new year address that the telco will launchtailored plansforitscus- tomers. Recognising your needsareunique,weare aunch- ingnew,frst-of their-kind tar- iff plans designed with you in mind?he wrote.

171. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 211100.png
   Extracted Text: Nvidia unveils new tech for gamers Also announces first desktop PC MAX A CHERNEY  STEPHEN NELLIS January 7 NVIDIAHASTAKEN the wraps off new products such as Al to. better train robots and cars, souped-up gaming chips and itsfirstdesktopcomputer,asit expounded upon its potential to expandits business. At CES 2025, CEO Jensen Huangiaidouthow the worlds second-most valuable firm is bringing technology that pow- ersits lucrative datacentre AL chipstoconsumerPCsand lap- tops. Healso introduced what Nvidia calls Cosmos founda- tion models that generate photo-realistic video which can be used to train robotsand self-driving cars at a much lower cost thanusing conven- tional data, Cosmoswillbe made av able onan open licence sim- ilarto Meta Platforms Llama3 language models that have become widelyused in thetech industry.We really hope Cos- Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang holds a shield designed to look like a computer chip, at the CES 2025 rere 1mos will do for the world of roboticsand industrial Alwhat Llama 3 has done for enter- prise Al Huang sad Bank of America analyst Vivek Arya said it remained to be seen whether the robotics pushwould significantly boost Nvidiassales Thechallengeis making the products reliable enough, cheap enough and pervasive enough to spawn crediblebusiness models? Arya said inanoteto clients. Huang also unveiled new gaming chips thatuse Nvidias BlackwellAl tech, which has helped propel its salesin data centres. The chips, which Nvidia callsits RTX 50 series, aim to give video games movie-like graphics, especially ina field knownasshaders. The newchipscanalsohelp game developers generate moreaccuratehumanfaces,an area where players are apt to notice even slightlyunrealistic features.Thechipswill angein price from 549 to 1,999, with top models arriving on January 30 and lower-tier models coming in February. Huang also showed off its first desktop computer, called Project DIGITS albeita com- puter designed for computer programmersratherthan reg- ular consumers. Costing 3,000and runningan Nvidia operating system based on Linux, itwill feature the same chip at the heart of the com- panys data centre offerings but paired with a central processor built with help from Taiwans MediaTek. REUTERS TECH TALK TT Ravi Ahuja, president  CEO of Sony Pictures, speaks during a news conference, in Las Vegas Dell rebrands, the Apple way DELL TECHNOLOGIES IS rebrandingits PCsina manner reminiscentofApples naming conventions inan effort by the computer maker to spur demand. Decades-old product names for PCs such as XPS and Inspiron will be killed in favour of simplified brand- ing around the word, Dell, in its new generation of devices, it announced on Monday. BLOOMBERG AMD chips to power Dell PCs ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES AMD, the second-biggest raker of computer processors, saidits chipswillbeusedbyDell for the first time in PCs old to businesses. The chipmaker unveiled new processors says willmake AMD-based personal computers the best at running Alsoftware.Dellhas decided to use the chips in some of its computers aimed at business customers. BLOOMBERG

172. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 211117.png
   Extracted Text: Only 1 in 5 sees household income rising in25 Study FE BUREAU New Delhi, January 7 ONLY 24 OR 1 out of every 5 Indians expects their household income to rise in 2025, a survey released on Tuesday showed, The survey by LocalCircles, based on the responses of 116,111 persons, also revealed that as much as 48 of households expect their eam- ings to drop by up to 25 in the new year. Asked about their house- hold savings in 2025, only 27 said that they expect their savings to increase. On the otherhand, 45 of house- holds surveyed expect up toa 25 decline in savings this alendaryear. As households across the country grapplewith this mas- sivesqueeze, theUnion Budget 2025 must consider someseri- ous interventions that will assist them, LocalCirdes said inthe report. Alack of income growth in most households, along with consistently high food infla- tion, led to Indians reducing FUTURE TENSE Responses Likely to increase 0-25 Likely to increase but cant say how much Likely to stay same Likely to fall by 0-10 Likely to fall by 10-25 Likely to fall by over 25 Likely to fall but cant say by how much discretionary spending in 2024,with retailers reporting lower-than-expected growth in sales of electronics, homeappli- ances and personal vehicles. Indian households expect inflation to rise further while consumer confidence has taken a knock due to aweak sentiment, showed RBIs for- ward-looking surveys in November. The latest round of the RBI survey of households inflation expectations was conducted from November2- LL Itshowed thata somewhat larger share of respondents expects the year ahead price and inflation to increase in the November survey com pared with the September 2024round. Households median per ception of current inflation rose by 30 basis points bps to 8.49, comparedwith 8.1 in September. Median inflation expecta tion forthethreemonthshort zon moderated marginally by 10 bps to 9.1, whereas it inched up by 10bps to 10.1 forthe one-yearperiod ahead. thecentral bank said.

173. Image: Screenshot 2025-01-08 211134.png
   Extracted Text: Samsung CEO touts AI fridges  washers YOOLIM LEE January 7 SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS IS. ramping upinvestmentinAlfor consumerelectronics, betting on its ubiquitous presence in gadgets from smartphones to TVstohelpit stake outa spot in theAlarena, Samsung is counting onits unique market position as a Ieaderin not justmobiledevices ut also home appliances like reftigeratorsand washers,CEO Han Jong-Hee said in an inter- viewThe companywantstobet- ter connect the half-billion devices it sellseveryyeartohelp make up for missteps thathave cost it the lead against big tech rivalsinareassuch as top-end mem- oryandGenAl. South Koreas mostvaluablefirm saw its shares slump by a third in 2024 as it failed to closethegapon compatriot SKHynixin the con- HAN JONG-HEE CEO, SAMSUNG Samsung has a history of over- coming numerous crises and reinventing itself testto sll advanced mem- otyforAlaccelerators. Prolonged delays securing Nvidias approvalforitshigh-bandwidth memory,or HEM, chips trans- lated to aloss of investor con- fidence, despite a strong year fromitssmartphone group. At CES, Samsung chose to emphasise its advantage in smart home tech. Unlike rivals Apple, Amazon and Google, its home connectivity hubs are built directly into appliances consumers are buying anyway. UnderHansleadership,thefim hasbeeninstallingAlchipsin its fridges, washing machines and robot vacuum dleaners. Ultimately,our goalisto cre- ate new products that people havent experienced beforesaid Han,a36-yearSamsungveteran widely credited for securing Samsungs position as the worlds top TV sellerovernearly two decades. Samsung also announcedanewAlinitiative for TVs, which will compete with Googles TV software and offer real-time translation, content analysis and audio and video enhancements powered by Al. Samsung has a history of overcoming numerous crises, andreinventing itself? Hansaid. BLOOMBERG.

174. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 151827.png
   Extracted Text: Bomb threats to schools Class 9 student apprehended Press Trust of India NOIDA A 1Syear-old student of Class 9 was apprehended for sending bomb threat emails to four schools in Noida, the police said on Thursday. He was later presented before the juvenile court, an officer said. According to the police, the student said he sent the emails because he did not want to attend school. He used a Virtual Private Net- work VPN to hide his loca- tion and IP address so that the emails could not be traced, an officer said. A police team, a fire bri- gade team and a bomb squad were rushed to the schools after the school ad- ministration discovered the emails. The premises were evacuated first, and then thoroughly searched, but nothing suspicious was found, Noida Deputy Com- missioner of Police DCP Ram Badan Singh said. An FIR was registered on behalf of one school under Sections 212, 3514, 352 of the BNS and 67 D of the IT Act, an officer said. It was found after investigation by the surveillance team and cyber team that a student of Class 9 was behind send- ing the fake email to the schools, he added.

175. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 152415.png
   Extracted Text: JK Police to review Mirwaizs security Peerzada Ashic SRINAGAR. The Jammu and Kashmir Police is considering resto- ration of security cover for Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq days after his engagement with the Joint Parliamentary Committee IPC on the Waqf Amend- ment Bill 2024 and his outreach to migrant Kas miri Pandits in New Delhi. Online threats Official sources said the re- cent two-week visit of the Hurriyat_ chairman and Kashmirs chief cleric to Delhi evoked sharp reac- tions from different quar- ters. Sources said the pol- ice assessed the online threats made to the Mi waiz after his Delhi tour, especially his engagement Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, with Kashmiri Pandits. The security review of the Mirwaiz is under way, sources said. Given the threat perception, the se- curity cover, which was withdrawn from the Mir- waiz in 2019, may be res- tored soon. The Mirwaiz was al- lowed to travel to Delhi for the first time since the Centre ended JKs special status in 2019.

176. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 152556.png
   Extracted Text: Civilian dead after alleged police torture in Jammu He was detained over false char ge and forced into confes ion, says Mehbooba Mufti another man was shot dead by the Army in Kashmir after allegedly speeding away from a checkpoint Peerzada Ashic SRINAGARJAMMU civilian was shot A by the Army north Kashmirs Baramulla after he alleged- ly sped away from a check- point on Thursday. In Jam- mus_ Kathua, another civilian was found dead af- ter allegedly facing torture in police custody. An official identified the victim in the Baramulla in- cident as Waseem Ahmad Mir of Sopore. The Army, in a state- ment, said, On February 5, 2025, based on a specific intelligence input about the movement of terro- rists, a mobile vehicle check post was established by security forces. One speeding suspicious civil truck was spotted. When challenged, the truck didnt stop despite repeat- ed warnings instead accel- erated further while cross- ing the check post. Jammu and Kashmir Police and BSF check a car during a search operation, in Samba on Wednesday. ANI The Army said troops pursued the vehicle for ov- er 23 km. Shots were fired aiming on tyres which forced the vehicle to halt. After to a detailed search, the injured driver was im- mediately evacuated to Go- vernment Medical College, Baramulla, where he was declared dead The JK police said it has lodged an FIR at the Baramulla police station. The police urged the pu- blic to maintain peace and refrain from spreading misinformation regarding this incident. In Kathua, a civilian, who was allegedly tortured in police custody, was found dead on Thursday. According to the local peo- ple, Makhan Din, 25, from Billawar, was beaten up and mentally tortured in police custody over having Jinks with militants. They said he had even made a video inside a mos- que where he swore that he had never seen a mili- tant in the area. Former JK Chief Minis- ter Mehbooba Mufti, in a post on X, said Din was de- tained by the SHO of Billa- war on false charges of be- ing an overground worker OGW. He was reportedly sub- jected to brutal thrashing and torture, forced into a confession, and tragically found dead today. The area has been sealed off, and in- tenet services have been cut, leading to widespread panic. Theres an ongoing crackdown, with more in- dividuals being picked up. This incident appears to follow a troubling pattern of targeting innocent youths on fabricated charges. I urge the Director General of Police to initiate an immediate investiga- tion, she said.

177. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 152615.png
   Extracted Text: 10,147-crore worth contracts signed for Pinaka ammunition The Hindu Bureau A contract for NEW DELHI upgrades in Shakti The Defence Ministry on software has also Thursday signed contracts been signed with worth 210,147 crore for a Bharat Electronics variety of ammunition for Limited the Armys Pinaka Multiple Rocket Launch Systems MRLS. The ammunition chanised forces, vehicles also enhances the range of _ and personnel, thereby de- the Pinaka systems. nying specific areas to the Contracts were inked  enemy, the statement said. with Economic Explosives The upgraded Pinaka is, Limited EEL and Muni- _ going to be the mainstay of tions India Limited MIL the Armys long range for the procurement of  rocket artillery. Area Denial Munition _Last November, the De- ADM Type-1 and High Ex- fence Research and Deve- plosive Pre-Fragmented lopment _ Organisation HEPF-Mk1 enhanced DRDO announced the rockets respectively for Pi- successful completion of naka MRLS ata total cost of flight tests of guided Pina- 210,147 crore, a Ministry ka rockets of 75 km paving statement said. the way for its induction contract for upgrades doubling the _ original in Shakti software has also range. Work is on to en- been signed with Bharat hance the range to 120 km Electronics Limited BEL. _ and further to 300 km. The ADM Type-lammu- The fully automated 214- nition has a. specialised mm Pinaka MRLS battery warhead to deliver a quan- can deliver a salvo of 72 tum of sub-munitions over rockets on the target up to a larger area targeting me-_ 75 km in 44 seconds.

178. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 152641.png
   Extracted Text: IAFs Mirage 2000 crashes near Gwalior after system malfunction pilots safe The Hindu Bureau BHOPAL An Indian Air Force IAF aircraft, a twin-seater Mir- age 2000, crashed on Thursday in Shivpuri dis- trict of Madhya Pradesh af- ter a system malfunction. Both pilots safely ejected before the accident, auth- orities said. The IAF said the fighter plane was out on a routine sortie and crashed after en- countering a system mal- function. The LAF said ina post on X that an inquiry had been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident. The plane crashed around 2.30 p.m. near Su- nari village in the Karera police station limits, ac- cording to the local police. ShivpuriSuperinten- dent of Police SP Aman Singh Rathore told The Hindu that the plane had taken off from the Gwalior In flames The Mirage 2000 aircraft of the IAF crashed near Shivpuri during a routine training sortie, in Gwalior on Thursday. ANI airbase and crashed near Karera town. The authori- ties were alerted by the lo- cal people who spotted the plane ina field, he added. Mr. Rathore said the two pilots had safely ejected from the plane before the crash and received minor injuries. A team of LAF offi- cials arrived in Shivpuri on a helicopter and airlifted the pilots back to the base, he added. Additional SP Sanjeev Mule told reporters that no local person suffered inju- ries in the incident. Local police, an ambulance, and a fire tender reached the spot immediately, he said. Videos from the crash site surfaced on the Inter- net showing the aircraft in pieces and flames. The IAF operates three squadrons of the Mirage 2000 fighters, manufac- tured by Dassault Aviation of France, which have since been upgraded, and are based at Gwalior.

179. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 152810.png
   Extracted Text: Firing between Army and militants at LoC ARUNSHARMA JAMMU, FEBRUARY 8 SUSPECTED MILITANTS hiding in. forests inside Pakistan-occupied Kashmir PoK Saturday after- noon fired at Indian soldiers pa- trollingon their side of the Line of Control LoCinthe border Rajouri districtin Jammu, security sources said. According to sources, the at- tempted infiltration bid took place at 2 pmnear a forward village in the Keri sector, when some mili- tants believed to be hiding ina wooded area in PoK opened fire at a patrol team from the Indian Army, who retaliated. There were no casualties on the Indian side, the sources said, adding that security was in- creased in the area and searches are currently ongoing. The alleged infiltration at- tempt comes at a time when Jammu has generally been seeing an increase in militant activity. Significantly, the site of firing falls near Battal in Krishna Ghati sector of adjoining Poonch district where a number of militants had reportedly died inalandmine ex- plosion on the morning of February5. Although the security forces had no numbers on how many militants were killed in the explosion, sources claimed that five militants were previously seen lurking in the area, According to sources, the ex- plosion took place ona route used by militants to infiltrate into JK from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir,

180. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 153033.png
   Extracted Text: PALESTINIAN MILITANT group Hamas handed over three Israeli hostages on Saturday, whose gaunt appearance shocked Israelis, while Israel began free- ing dozens of Palestinians in the latest stage of a ceasefire deal aimed at ending the 15-month war in Gaza. Ohad Ben Ami and Eli Sharabi, both taken hostage from Kibbutz Beeri during the cross- border Hamas-led attack on October 7,2023, and Or Levy, ab- ducted that day from the Nova music festival, were led onto a Hamas podium by gunmen. The three men all appeared thin, weak and pale, and in worse condition than the 18 hostages who had previously been freed under the truce agreed last month. He looked like a skeleton, it was awful to see, Ohad Ben Amis mother-in-law, Michal Cohen, told Channel 13 News as she watched the Hamas-di- rected handover ceremony, which included the hostages an- swering questions posed by a masked manas militants armed with automatic rifles stood on each side. In another show of force by Hamas, which has paraded fight- ers during previous releases, dozens of its militants deployed in central Gaza as it handed hostages over to the International Committee of the Red Cross. They were then driven in ICRC Israeli captives, from left to right, Ohad Ben Ami, Eli Sharabi and Or Levy with Hamas fighters before being handed over to the Red Cross in Gaza Strip on Saturday. Reuters vehicles to Israeli forces. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the sight of the frail hostages was shocking and would be ad- dressed. Israels President Isaac Herzog described the release ceremony as cynical and vicious. This is what a crime against hu- manity looks like, he said. The Hostage Families Forum said the images of the three hostages evoked images of sur- vivors of Nazi concentration camps during the Holocaust. We have to get ALL THE HOSTAGES out of hell, it said. Palestinians complain of ill-treatment Inexchange for the hostages release, Israel is freeing 183 Palestinian prisoners, some con- victed of involvement in attacks that killed dozens of people, as wellas 111 detained in Gaza dur- ing the war. In Ramallah, in the Israeli-oc- cupied West Bank, a bus carrying 42 freed Palestinian prisoners was welcomed by a cheering crowd. Among those freed was Eyad Abu Shkaidem, sentenced to 18 life terms in Israel for master- minding suicide attacks in re- venge for Israels 2004 assassi- nations of Hamas leaders. Today, 1 am reborn, Shkaidem told reporters upon arrival in Ramallah, as the crowd. cheered. Many of the prisoners freed appeared in poor health and some complained of ill- treatment. The occupation hu- miliated us for over a year, said Shkaidem.

181. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 153053.png
   Extracted Text: IRAN Khamenei meets top Hamas leaders Tehran Irans Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei metwithacting Hamas leader Khalil al- Hayyaand twootherlead- ersofthe Palestinian group in Tehran on Saturday, Iranian state TV reported. You defeated the Zionist regime Israel, which was in fact Americas defeat, Khamenei, whose country supports Hamas in its war with Israel, told the Palestinian delegation. They expressed gratitude for Irans continued sup- port. AP

182. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 153111.png
   Extracted Text: Lets do a deal, says Zelenskyy, REUTERS KYIV, FEBRUARY 8 UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT Volodymyr Zelenskyy pored over a once-classified map of vast deposits of rare earths and other critical minerals duringan interview with Reuters on Friday, part of a push to appeal to Donald Trumps penchant for a deal. TheUS president, whose ad- ministration is pressing for a rapid end to Ukraines war with Russia, said on Monday he wanted Ukraine to supply the US with rare earths and other min- eralsin return for financially sup- porting its war effort. If we are talking about a deal, then lets do a deal, we are only for it, Zelenskyy said, em- phasising Ukraines need for se- curity guarantees from its allies as part of any settlement. Ukraine floated the idea of opening its critical minerals to offers US rare earths for security Ukrainian police officersevacuate people from the frontline towns and villages in Donetsk on Friday. Reuters investment by allies last autumn, as it presented a victory plan that sought to put it in the strongest position for talks and force Moscow to the table. Zelenskyy said less than 20 of Ukraines mineral resources, including about halfits rareearth deposits, were under Russian oc- cupation. Rare earths are important in the manufacture of high-per- formance magnets, electric mo- tors and consumer electronics Zelenskyy said Moscow could open those resources to its allies North Korea and Iran, both sworn US enemies.

183. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 153144.png
   Extracted Text:  Israel tells Army to prepare for departure of Gazans Trump had proposed that U ake over Gaza to relocate residents, sparking major international condemnation Palestinians firmly reject any forced exile, asserting their right to remain in Gaza Reuters JERUSALEM sraels Defence Minis- I ter ordered the Army on Thursday to pre- pare a plan to allow the voluntary departure of residents from Gaza, after U.S. President Donald Trump drew widespread condemnation for an- nouncing plans to take ov- er the strip. Defence Minister Israel Katz hailed Mr. Trumps announcement that the United States would aim to take control of Gaza, reset- tle the more than 2 million Palestinians living there and transform the territory into the Riviera of the Middle East. I welcome President Trumps bold plan, Gaza residents should be al- lowed the freedom to leave Last resort Palestinians take shelter in tents set up amid heavily damaged buildings in Jabalia in the northern Gaza Strip. AFP and emigrate, as is the norm around the world, Mr. Katz said on X. He said his plan would include exit options via land crossings, as well as special arrange- ments for departure by sea and air. Displacement of Palesti- nians is one of the most sensitive and explosive is- sues in the West Asia. Forced or coerced dis- placement of a population under military occupation is a war crime, banned un- der the 1949 Geneva Conventions. Israeli strikes which killed tens of thousands of people over the past 16 months have forced Pales- tinians to repeatedly move around within Gaza, seek- ing safety. But many say they will never leave the enclave because they fear permanent displacement, like the Nakba, or catas- trophe, when hundreds of thousands were dispos- sessed from homes in the war at the birth of the state of Israel in 1948, Driven out Many were driven out or fled to Gaza, the West Bank and neighbouring Arab states including to Jordan, Syria and Lebanon, where their descendants still live in refugee camps. Israel disputes the account that they were forced out. Mr. Katz said countries who have opposed Israels military operations in Gaza should take in the Palestinians.

184. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 153233.png
   Extracted Text: France sends Mirage 2000 fighter jets to Ukraine ence France-Presse PARIS France has delivered a first consignment of Mirage 20005 fighter jets to Uk- raine to help Kyiv defend its airspace against Russia, Defence Minister Sebastien Lecornu said on X on Thursday. Ukrainian leader Volo- dymyr Zelenskyy hailed the delivery, which comes amid fears of decreasing support from Washington since U.S. President Do- nald Trumps inauguratior Of the 26 Mirage 2000-5 aircraft owned by the French air force, six were to be transferred to Uk- raine, according to a Bud- get report published by Frances Lower House of Parliament.

185. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 153246.png
   Extracted Text: At least 80 killed as Army, militant outfit clash in Sudan UN warns of catastrophe Agence France-Presse PORT SUDAN The United Nations warned on Thursday that two southern Sudan states were on the brink of ca- tastrophe after a recent eruption of violence re- portedly killed at least 80 people in one city. Renewed fighting broke out last week in the states of South Kordofan and Blue Nile between the Ar- my and a faction of the Su- dan Peoples Liberation Movement-North SPLM- N led by Abdel Aziz alHilu. United Nations resident and humanitarian coordi- nator in Sudan Clementine Nkweta-Salami said the fighting had reportedly claimed at least 80 lives in South Kordofan state capi- tal Kadugli alone.  condemn the report- ed use of women and chil- dren as human shields in Kadugli, the obstruction of humanitarian aid, and the detention of civilians in- Army and SPLM-N have accused each other of launching attacks, and targeting civilians cluding children, the UNs most senior official in the country said in a statement. Sudans Army and its main rival, the paramili- tary Rapid Support Forces RSF, have been at war for control of the country since April 2023, creating a widespread humanitarian crisis. Mr. Hilus unaffiliat- ed faction of the SPLM-N has clashed with both since the war broke out. In recent days, the Army and the SPLM-N have accused each other of launching at- tacks and targeting civi- lians in an attempt to cap- ture territory. The UN warned the es- calating violence would only worsen the already dire humanitarian situation.

186. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 153632.png
   Extracted Text: Rwandan, Congolese leaders meet over eastern DRC conflict, call for ceasefire ence France-Presse BUKAVU, Rwandan President Paul Kagame and his Congolese counterpart Felix Tshise- kedi joined a summit in Tanzania on Saturday where regional leaders called for an immediate ceasefire in the Democrat- ic Republic of Congo. The  Rwanda-backed M23 armed group has ra- idly seized swathes of ter- ritory in the minerabrich eastern Democratic Repu- blic of Congo in an offen- sive that has left thousands dead and displaced vast numbers. Leaders before attending the Extraordinary Joint Regional Summit at the State House in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. AFP The group took the stra- tegic city of Goma, capital of North Kivu province, last week and is pushing in- to neighbouring South Ki- vu in the latest episode of decades-long turmoil in the region. Mr. Kagame took part in person at the summit in the Tanzanian city of Dar es Salaam that brought to- gether the eight countries of the East African Com- munity EAC and 16-mem- ber South African Develop- ment Community SADC. Mr. Tshisekedi appeared via video call. We call on all parties to actualise the ceasefire, and specifically on the M23 to halt further advancement and the armed forces of DRC to cease all retaliatory measures, said Kenyan President William Ruto, current chair of the EAC. The Presidents of Ke- nya, Somalia, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe were among those present when the summit began.

187. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 153733.png
   Extracted Text: Delhi  Noida schools get bomb threat emails EXPRESS NEWSSERVICE NEW DELHI, FEBRUARY 7 ATLEAST two private schools in Delhi and Noida and Delhi Universitys St Stephens College in the Capital received bomb threats over emails on Friday, prompting security agencies to conduct checks at the premises. According to sourcesin the po- lice, Ahlcon International School in East Delhis Pandav Nagar and Shiv Nadar School in Noida re- ceived the bomb threat emails. Soon after receiving the informa- tion, the bomb detection team, disposal squad, dog squad, fire de- partment officials, and local police reached the spot, a police officer said, adding that nothing suspi- cious had been found so far. Ahlcon International School is- sued a statement to parents over thethreat. Due to anemail threat received this morning, we are compelled to close school today keeping the safety of our students in mind. Your patience and coop- eration in this regard shall be highly appreciated. The compe- tent authorities are being con- tacted for further instructionsand clearance, it stated. The Shiv Nadar School also is- sued a statement to the parents, saying This is to share that we havereceivedathreatto the safety of students on campus. We are therefore closing the campus down forthe day, Friday, February 7,inorder to complete a sweep to ensure safety for all. Please keep your childathometo supportthis. Those who have already boarded the bus will be sent back home with immediate effect. DCPNoidaRam Badan Singh said, It is suspected that some mischievous element sent the Ahlcon International School in Mayur Vihar received a hoax threat email on Friday. Praveen Khanna email, Ourcyber teamis working toarrest the sender. This is the latest in a series of bomb threat emails sent to schoolsin Delhi-NCR overthe past few months  all were declared hoaxes and students were appre- hended in several cases. On Thursday, a 15-year-old student ofa private school wasap- prehended by the Noida Police for allegedly sendinghoax emails re- garding the presence ofbombsin four schools on Wednesday. He did not want to go to school and, therefore, planned to. send an email threat to all four schools, except for his to avoid being caught, Ram Badan Singh had said.

188. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 153903.png
   Extracted Text: Onekilled in shooting linked to drug gangs Brussels Gunfire in Brussels killed one person Friday in what Belgian of- ficials said was the fourth shootingin the pastweek believed linked to drug gangs, prompting a gov- ernment vow to boost po- lice on the citys streets. It was the first fatal shooting in the spate of violence in the Anderlecht and St. Josse neighbourhoods. Officials said they all had the hallmarks of drug-re- lated violence, not terror- ism. Itis more than likely that the shootings are linked, Prosecutor General Frdric Van Leeuw said. PT

189. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 153915.png
   Extracted Text: 59 Sri Lankans recruited by Russian army died in Ukraine, minister tells Parliament PRESS TRUST OF INDIA COLOMBO, FEBRUARY 7 AT LEAST 59 of the 554 Sri Lankans have perished in the Ukraine war fighting for Russia, Foreign Minister Vijitha Herath told parliament here on Friday. According to the informa- tion received by January 20 this year, 554 were recruited for the Russian military service, Herath said. There was no forcible enlist- ing of the Sri Lankans by Russia, Herath said adding, Colombo has been continuing its talks with the Russians to delist and send them back. Sri Lanka also pressed the Russians to discontinue the re- cruitment of Sri Lankans to fight inthe war.

190. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 153925.png
   Extracted Text: Khamenei says Irans proposed nuclear talks with US are not wise ASSOCIATED PRESS DUBAI, FEBRUARY 7 IRANS SUPREME leader said Friday that negotiations with Americaarenotintelligent, wise or honorable after President Donald Trump floated nuclear talks with Tehran. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei also suggested that there should be no negotiations with such a government, but stopped short of issuing a direct order not to engage with Washington. Khameneis remarks upend months of signals from Tehran to the United States that it wanted to negotiate overits rapidly advanc- Irans supreme leader - Ayatollah Ali y Khamenei ing nuclear program in exchange for the lifting of crushing eco- nomic sanctions worth billions of dollars. The Iranian rial sunk to a record low of 8,72,000 rials to 1 in aftermarket trading. What happens next remains unclear, particularly as reformist President Masoud Pezeshkian promised as recently as Thursday to enter intoa dialogue with the West.

191. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 153944.png
   Extracted Text: URs Royal Navy expands ceremonial dress code to include sari ADITIKHANNA LONDON, FEBRUARY? THE UKS Royal Navy has ex- panded its mess dress code pol- icy for formal and ceremonial oc- casions to include ethnic outfits, including the sari, to reflect wider forms ofthe countrys cul- tural identity. Lance Corporal Jack Kanani, chair of the Royal Navys Race Diversity Network,recently made the announcement of the update to the dress code as part of the forces wider Cultural Equivalent initiative. The existing code for navalmessfunctionsalready cov- ers Scottish, Irish, Welsh, Cornish and Manx heritage, represented through the wearing of kilts and tartan dresses. As Chair of the Royal Navy Race Diversity Network RN- RDN, itgives me great pleasure to announce that existing Royal Navy RN cultural mess dress policy has just been updated to include wider forms of British cultural identity, said Kanani. The RNRDNs initiative, coined the Cultural Equivalent, ini- tially began over two years ago. The Network canvased opinions from ethnic minority service per- The move hasattracted some criticism, with one veteran saying it exposes the Royal Navy toridicule. ap sonnel to understand how widen- ing existing policy on cultural mess dress would make them feel able tocelebrate both their RNand cultural heritage, he said. The update in policy now widens that to be inclusive of other British cultures that serve within the RN, he added. Ina social media post, he il- lustrated this change by an hon- orary female captain wearing a white sari, witha white shirt and bow tie along with her mess jacket. Regulations for naval mess dress have strict rules for above the waist, requiring all of- ficers to sport their uniform jack- ets with trousers, a tartan kilt or askirt. Now, the network hopes Royal Navy officers will be able to celebrate their heritage by wearing items such as a sari or an African outfit coupled with their jacket, shirt and bow tie. The move has attracted some criticism, with one veteran say- ing it exposes the Royal Navy to ridicule. The reason for uniform. inadisciplined fighting service is to achieve a common identity, not to accentuate the differ- ences... Rather than running a fashion parade, what this team should have been doingis to help recruit sailors from diverse cul- tural backgrounds, Retired Rear Admiral Philip Mathias said in te- sponse to Kananis social media announcement. The Royal Navys Race Diversity Network defended the expansion of the dress code as reflective of the diverse work- force that serve within it. Italso clarified that animage accompanying the post on social media was taken during an ear- lier research phase of the Cultural Equivalent initiative and not illustrative of how different forms of cultural dress will be worn with mess dress under the updated regulations. PTI

192. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 154201.png
   Extracted Text: Nine submarines, 65 ships taking part in TROPEX exercise The Hindu Bureau NEW DELHI Indian Navys biennial cap- stone Theatre Level Opera- tional Exercise TROPEX is under way in the Indian Ocean Region, in which the combined fleet, com- prising approximately 65 Indian Navy ships, nine submarines, and over 80 aircraft, are being put through complex maritime operational scenarios to validate and refine the Na- vys Concept  of, Operations. This is conducted bien- nially with participation by all operational units of the Navy along with participa- tion of Army, Air Force, and Coast Guard assets. TROPEX-25 is aimed at validating Indian Navys core warfighting skills, and ensuring a synchronised, integrated response to pre- serve and protect national maritime security interests ina contested maritime en- vironment against conven- tional, asymmetric as well as hybrid threats, the Na- vy said in a statement.

193. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 154411.png
   Extracted Text: Forest personnel conduct search for leopard cubs on Tirupati university campus The Hindu Bureau TIRUPATI Amid suspicion over the presence of leopard cubs on the Sri Venkateswara University SVU campus in Tirupati, the Andhra Pradesh Forest Depart- ment conducted a peram- bulation across the spraw- ling campus here on Wednesday. Accompanied by the un- iversitys security person- nel, the forest guards con- ducted the exercise to survey the entire campus. The exercise started at 10.30 a.m. and ended at On the move Forest officials and university staff surveying the 4.30 p.m. but they could not find any trace of leo- pard cubs. Four cages were placed across the campus to cap- campus on Wednesday. KV, POORNACHANDRA KUNAR ture the elusive leopard that has been making fo- rays into the campus regu- larly from the abutting Ti- rumala forests.

194. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 154431.png
   Extracted Text: Narcotics network backing infiltrators in JK, says Shah Union Home Minister directs all secu agencies to step up fight against terrorism by aiming for the zero infiltration goal he adds that it should be a goal to uproot the existence of terro1 Vijaita Singh NEW DELHI nion Home Minis- U amit Shah on Wednesday  said that the narcotics network was providing support to infiltrators and terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir. He said that there was a need to initiate prompt action with alacrity and rigour against terror funding from the proceeds of narcotics trade. Mr. Shah, who reviewed the security situation in the Union Territory on Wednesday, directed all se- curity agencies to step up the fight against terrorism by aiming for the zero in- filtration goal. He asked  AI  Amit Shah chairs a high-level review meetingiin New Delhi on Wednesday on the security situation in JK. PT! all security agencies to take more stringent action on infiltration and acts of ter- ror with a ruthless ap- proach. He said that it should be a goal to uproot the existence of terrorists. The meeting was attend- ed by the Lieutenant-Go- vernor of Jammu and Kash- mir, Manoj Sinha Union Home Secretary Govind Mohan Intelligence Bu- reau Director Tapan Ku- mar Deka Director-Gener- al of Police JK Nalin Prabhat and other senior officials. A day ago, Mr. Shah held a review meet- ing with the Chief of the Ar- my Staff, General Upendra Dwivedi. Mr. Shah directed the agencies to make fresh ap- pointments to the posts at the Forensic Science Labo- ratory in view of the timely implementation of the new criminal laws. Emphasising the go- vernments policy of zero tolerance against terro- rism, the Minister directed ity agencies to re- ant and continue to work in synergy to elim- inate terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir.

195. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 154445.png
   Extracted Text: Stryker infantry vehicle deal with the US. progresses Javelin to be re-demonstrated Dinakar Peri NEW DELHI Against the backdrop of US. President Donald Trumps remarks to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that India should buy more military equipment from them and amid the upcom- ing visit of Mr. Modi to Washington DC next week, several defence deals in the pipeline are in focus, among them the deal for co-production of Stryker infantry combat vehicles. The performance of Stryker in high-altitude conditions was demon- strated for the Indian Army and negotiations are mak- ing progress, according to sources in the know. The Stryker, manufac- tured by General Dynam- ics, has been evaluated in high-altitude conditions of Ladakh last September-Oc- tober and the report has subsequently been shared with the Army Headquar- ters for further action, ac- cording to the sources. The performance of the vehicles was demonstrated in high-altitude conditions between 13,000 and 18,000 feet which also saw the testing of the Javelin Anti-Tank Guided Missile ATGM, two sources said. And given some shortcom- ings, last month a commu- nication was sent and re- trials are now awaited any- time, the sources stated. The Stryker with its dou- ble-V hull performed opti- mally, one of the sources said, adding that the Jave- lins performance was not at the optimum level, which was due to the age of the system that being used and repeat trials are ex- Infantry carrier A Stryker armoured vehicle used by the U.S. Army during their final days in Iraq. FILE PHOTO pected to validate that. In- dia has already sent a com- munication to the U.S. side asking for repeat demon- stration of the Javelin, another source said, and the schedule is being worked out. The Army has identified a key requirement for ATGMs mounted on infan- try combat vehicles, sever- al defence officials stated. However, the Stryker var- iant with the Javelin ATGM is under development and is expected to be demon- strated to India in the near future, it has been learnt. Assembling in India The envisaged plan, ac- cording to sources, is the procurement of few hundred vehicles in two stages. Direct import of small number of Strykers in the first stage and li- cense manufacture of a bulk of them, with some customisations, in India likely by defence public sector undertaking Bharat Earth Movers Limited. The Stryker deal is ex- pected to figure in the con- versations during Mr. Mo- dis US. visit along with the deal for license manufac- ture of General Electric F-414 jet engines in India and the long delays in de- liveries of the F-404 en- gines for the Light Combat Aircraft LCA-MKIA which has delayed the delivery and induction schedule. The US. has in the past demonstrated both the Stryker as well as Javelin ATGM to the Indian Army during bilateral exercises.

196. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 154456.png
   Extracted Text: Pak. wants to resolve all issues with India Sharif Press Trust of India ISLAMABAD Pakistans Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Wednes- day said the country wants to resolve all issues, includ- ing Kashmir, with India through talks as he reiterat- ed his unwavering suj port for the Kashmiri people, Mr. Sharif made the re- marks while addressing a special session of the Pakis- tan-occupied Kashmir PoK Legislative Assembly in Muzaffarabad on the oc- casion of Kashmir Solidar- ity Day, an annual Pakis- tani event to show support for the Kashmiris. India should come out of the thinking of August 5, 2019, and fulfil promises made to the UN and launch a dialogue, he added.

197. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 154546.png
   Extracted Text: In the latest step toward eliminating colonial prac- tices and mindsets within the armed forces, Fort Wil- liam in Kolkata, the head- quarters of the Eastern Ar- my Command, has been renamed Vijay Durg. Addi- tionally, Kitchener House inside Fort William has been renamed Manekshaw House, and South Gate, formerly known as St. orges Gate, is now Shivaji Gate. Wing Commander Hi- manshu Tiwari, the De- fence Public Relations Of- ficer in Kolkata, has said the decision was made in mid-December and all in- ternal communications have since ceased using Fort William, adopting the new name instead. Ho- wever, the official announ- cement is still pending. Fort William, named af- ter King William Ill of En- gland, was constructed by the British in 1781. The new name, Vijay Durg, is derived from the oldest fort along the Sind- hudurg coast in Maharash- tra, It served as a naval base for the Marathas un- der Chhatrapati Shivaji. In recent years, there have been a series of mea- sures aimed at removing Army officers gather at Fort Williams in Kolkata during the Army Day celebrations. ae vestiges of the colonial era and Indianising mil- itary traditions and cus- toms  an initiative Prime Minister Narendra Modi has described as freedom from the mentality of slavery. In March 2022, while ad- dressing the top military leadership at Kevadia in Gujarat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi empha- sised the importance of en- hancing indigenisation in national defence  not just in terms of sourcing of equipment and weapons but also in the doctrines, procedures and customs practised by the armed forces. He urged the three ser- vices to rid themselves of legacy systems and practic- es that have outlived utility and relevance.

198. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 154630.png
   Extracted Text: Russia claims to have captured two more villages in eastern and northeast Ukraine Agence France-Presse Moscow Russia on Wednesday said its forces have taken two more villages in east and northeast Ukraine as the conflict between the two countries nears its third anniversary and both sides try to press a ground ad- vantage ahead of possible peace talks. Kyiv has struggled to hold back larger Russian forces, which have been making steady advances in the embattled east of Uk- raine for months. Moscows Defence Mi- nistry said troops took the village of Novomlynsk in the northeastern Kharkiv region, where Russian fore- Ukrainian firefighters try to put outa fire ina building aftera drone strike in Kharkiv on Wednesday. aFP es have crossed the Oskil river that had previously separated the two armies. The village lies in the east of the Kharkiv region on the Oskil river, which had marked the frontlines in parts of the region and where in recent weeks Rus- sian forces have esta- blished a bridgehead and gained ground. The Ministry also said troops took the village of Baranivka, north of the town of  Ocheretyne, where Russian forces have pressed for months. Russia has almost daily claimed the capture of east Ukrainian villages. Mos- cows offensive has dragged on for three years this month. Meanwhile, Russia and Ukraine each released 150 captured soldiers in thei latest prisoner-of-war ex- change, both sides said on Wednesday. Separately, a blast at an Army recruitment centre in western Ukraine killed one person on Wednesday, the latest in a string of such incidents amid the coun- trys divisive mobilisation

199. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 154954.png
   Extracted Text: Ukraine attempts offensiv in western Kursk Russia REUTERS MOSCOW, FEBRUARY 6 RUSSIAS DEFENCE ministry said Ukrainian troops attempted a counterattack on Thursday in Russias western Kursk region but were repelled by Russian forces. The ministry said Ukrainian troops and armoured vehicles had launched several waves of attacks near the villages of Ulanok and Cherkasskaya Konopelka, but that they were beaten back and the settlements were under Russian control. The fact that Ukrainian forces are still capable of launch- ing significant attacks in Kursk region highlights the stiff chal- lenge that Russia faces to dis- lodge them, six months after they burst across the border to seize a chunk of Russian terri- tory last year. Ukraines foothold in Kursk has shrunk significantly since the immediate aftermath of the August 6 incursion but provides it with a useful bargaining chip in potential peace talks. Russia controls about a fifth Why Russia E.  EEE challenge stillfaces  i THE FACT that Ukrainian forces are still capable of launching significant at- tacks in Kursk region highlights the stiff chal- lenge that Russia faces to dislodge them, six months after they burst across the border to seize achunk of Russian terri- tory last year. of Ukraine as the war ap- proaches its three-year anniver- sary on February 24, Meanwhile, Ukraines Defence Minister Rustem Umerov said Thursday the Netherlands had delivered US- made F-16 fighters to Ukraine. The aircraft, along with French Mirage jets, will soon be- gin carrying out combat mis- sions, strengthening our de- fence, Umerov said on Facebook.

200. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 155009.png
   Extracted Text: Iran Trumps plan follows Israeli scheme to wipe out Palestinians REUTERS DUBAI, FEBRUARY 6 IRAN CATEGORICALLY rejects a proposal by US President Donald Trump to relocate Palestinians from Gaza, foreign ministry spokesperson Esmail Baghaei said on Thursday. On Tuesday, Trump said the US would take over the war-rav- aged Gaza Strip and develop it economically after Palestinians are resettled elsewhere, actions that would shatter decades of US. policy toward the Israeli- Palestinian conflict. The plan to clear Gaza and relocate Palestinians to neigh- bouring countries is considered a continuation of the Zionist regimes Israel plan to com- pletely wipe out the Palestinian people, Baghaei wrote on social media website X. Israels. PM Benjamin Netanyahu said Trumps proposal isaremarkable idea that should Irans first drone-carrier warship, which, it says, is capable of operating in oceans far from its mainland. AP be pursued asit will create adif- ferent future for everyone. This idea is categorically re- jected and condemned due to its clear contradiction with estab- lished principles and rules of in- ternational law and human rights, Baghaei said in his state- ment, Baghaei called upon the United Nations Security Council and Organisation of Islamic Cooperation to take a clear stance explicitly rejecting Trumps announcement. On Wednesday, a senior Iranian official told Reuters that Tehran disagreed with any dis- placementof Gazans, but viewed this issue as a separate matter from potential Iran-US talks.

201. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-09 155141.png
   Extracted Text: Disregard for Kashmiri lives o  Leaders after truck driver killed in Army firing during chase BASHAARAT MASOOD SRINAGAR, FEBRUARY 6 A CIVILIAN truck driver was Killed ina firing incident involv- ing Army personnel on the Srinagar-Jammu national high- way near Sopore in Kashmir. While the Army claims he jumped a checkpoint and was chased for 23 km before tyres of the truck were fired at to de- flate them, the death has stirred up a storm after his family and political leaders questioned the official version. A civilian truck driver was killedwhenthearmy fired athim near Sopores Sangrama on the Srinagar-Baramulla highway, po- lice said. Police identified the the driver as Waseem Ahmad Mir 32, a resident of Bomai village, which is some 15 km from Sangrama, the site of the shooting. This comes at a time when the district administration and police in Kathua ordered in- quiries after the custodial death ofa Gujjar youth in Kathua. In its statement after the truck drivers Killing, the armys Chinar Corps said the driver jumpedacheck post Wednesday when he was asked to stop. On Feb 5, 2025, based on a specific intelligence input about the movement of terrorists, a Mobile Vehicle Check Post MVCP was established by Security Forces. One speeding suspicious civil truck was spotted. ...the truck didnt stop despite repeated warnings and instead acceler- ated further, the statement said. The troops pursued the vehi- cle for over 23 km, the army said. Shots were fired at tyres to de- flate, which forced the vehicle tohalt at Sangrama Chowk... the injured driver was immediately evacuated toGMC Baramulla by Security Forces where he was declared dead. But the family of the driver questioned the armys version and demanded the release of CCTV footage of the incident. Significantly, there are several security camps and security check posts on the stretch. As per Mirs cousin Abdul Rashid, Mir had left home at 10 pm Wednesday with a truck full of apple boxes and was heading to- wards Srinagar. Itwasa.co-driver whoalerted them of Mirs death. Ifthe army istellingthe truth, let them share the CCTV footage withus.. installed on every secu- rity force vehicle, Mirs cousin Abdul Rashid told The Indian Express. They army are saying they chased him for23 km. There aremany security campson this stretch and every camp has CCTV cameras installed on the roads... Let them showit.. He claimed there were con- tradictions in the statements made by the police and the army. How could they chase him for 23 km when the distance be- tween his home and the place where the incident happened is lessthan 16km...the SPsahib said he was chased for 35 km... when he had to go to Srinagar, why was the vehicle in the opposite di- rection, going to Baramulla. His clothes were in the dirt. We want to know if they had beaten..him before killing, he said. A doctor at the Baramulla Hospital said Mir was broughtin by the Army at 1 pmand hada single bullet injury with entry and exit wounds..suggested that he was shot at from close range. Another relative said, The bullet hit his armpit and exited from the other side. If the army had aimed at the tyres..the bul- let couldnt have hit his armpit. The oldest of four siblings, Mir is survived by his father, mother, three brothers and a sister. Meanwhile, opposition par- ties have called the incident a disregard for Kashmiri lives. The Peoples Democratic Party PDP leader Iitija Mufti has also questioned the Armys version. _youarmysay thatyou chased acivilian for 24 km..targeted the tyres..How was he Mir fatally killed? wanttoaskthe army that youseized the truck, whatdid you get from that truck? she asked. Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Lone said, Killingisa killing irrespective of the source or the context. The killing of the truck driverisamurder..beingexecuted by security forces makes it more heinous. He called it contempt and disregard for Kashmiri lives. Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah said he had ordered an inquiry and had taken it up with the Union gov- ernment. ..the death of Waseem Ahmed Malla Mir, shot by the army under circum- stances that are not entirely clear... Omar posted on X, adding JK will never be free of terror without the partnership with the local population.

202. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 141333.png
   Extracted Text: Sri Lankan Navy fires at Indian boat, two fishermen injured COLOMBOTIRUCHI A Sri Lankan Navy patrol fired at a fishing boat from Karaikal in Puducherry in the early hours of Tuesday, causing serious injuries to two fishermen. The Sri Lankan Navy also arrested 13 fishermen from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry aboard the boat, on charg- es of trespassing and fish- ing in the island nations waters. While India lodged a strong protest, Sri Lanka claimed that the Indian fishermen were illegally fishing in its territorial wa- ters and had attempted to assault its naval officers, adding that two fishermen received slight injuries in accidental fire. Indias Ministry of Exter- nal Affairs said two fisher- men suffered serious inju- ries and were receiving treatment at the Jafina Teaching Hospital. CONTINUED ON  PAGE 10

203. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 142018.png
   Extracted Text: Troops battle Rwanda-backed rebels as protests erupt in Congos capital Demonstrators attack several foreign embassies, including those of Rwanda, France and Belgium UN says humanitarian situation in Goma is extremely worrying with a hospital coming under attack, killing newborns and pregnant women Associated Press GOMA ecurity forces of the G bese Repu- blic of the Congo were fighting on Tuesday against Rwanda-backed re- bels who advanced into a key eastern city ina major escalation of a decades- Jong conflict. Residents reported gun- fire overnight in Goma, a city of 2 million people which the rebels claimed to have captured on Mon- day. Explosions and gun- fire were heard near the now-shut Goma airport. Goma is a regional trade and humanitarian hub Choas unfolds People protest in Kinshasa on Tuesday against M23, rebels advance into the city of Goma in Congos east. AP holding hundreds of thou- sands of the more than 6 million people displaced by eastern Congos pro- longed conflict over ethnic tensions. Dozens of demonstra- tors attacked several fo- reign embassies, including those of Rwanda, France and Belgium, on Tuesday demanding that they op- pose the advance of M23 rebels into Goma. Police fired teargas at the protes- ters as they marched to the embassies in Kinshasa, looting and setting fires to parts of the buildings. The embassies of Kenya and Uganda were also attacked. The humanitarian situa- tion in Goma is extremely worrying, with a new threshold of violence and suffering reached today, Bruno Lemarquis, the Un- ited Nations humanitarian coordinator for Congo, told reporters on Monday. There were active com- bat zones in all areas of the city, with civilians taking cover and heavy artillery fire directed at the city cen- ter on Monday, Mr. Lemar- quis said. He said several shells struck the Charit Maternelle Hospital in cen- tral Goma, killing and in- juring civilians, including newborns and pregnant women. Three South African peacekeepers were killed on Monday, while a fourth soldier succumbed to inju- ries sustained in fighting days ago. That makes 17 peacekeepers and foreign soldiers who have been killed in the fighting, ac- cording to UN and Army officials.

204. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 142437.png
   Extracted Text: MAN GETS LIFETERM FORKILLING KANISHKA BOMBING SUSPECT Ottawa  A Canadian court has sentenced a 24-year-old man to life after he pleaded guilty to the killing of Sikh businessman Ripudaman Singh Malik, a suspect in the 1985 Air India bombing who was later acquitted, accord- ing to local media reports. A British Columbia Supreme Court judge Tuesday sen- tenced Tanner Fox to life with no parole for 20 years for killing Malik, the CBC news reported. PTI

205. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 142451.png
   Extracted Text: Canada report on Nijjar killing No definitive link to foreign state proven RESS TRUST OF INDIA ITTAWA, JANUARY 29  CANADA commission report s said no definitive link with foreign state in the killing of sikh activist Hardeep Singh ijjar was proven, smashing anadian Prime Minister Justin rrudeaus allegations that ac- used the involvementof Indian gents in the killing. In September 2023, Trudeau said Canada had credible evi- lence that the Indian govern- nent was involved in the mur- ler of Nijjar in British Columbia nJune 2023. In the report, titled Public Inquiry Into Foreign nterference in Federal Electoral rocesses and Democratic nstitutions, released Tuesday, ommissioner Marie-Josee Jogue said, Disinformation is ised asa retaliatory tacticto pun- sh decisions running contrary to states interests. The report sug- yested India spread disinforma- ion on the killing of Nijjar. This nay have been the case with a lisinformation campaign that fol- owed the Prime Ministers an- MAN GETS LIFETERM FORKILLING KANISHKA BOMBING SUSPECT Ottawa  A Canadian court has sentenced a 24-year-old man to life after he pleaded guilty to the killing of Sikh businessman Ripudaman Singh Malik, a suspect in the 1985 Air India bombing who was later acquitted, accord- ing to local media reports. A British Columbia Supreme Court judge Tuesday sen- tenced Tanner Fox to life with no parole for 20 years for killing Malik, the CBC news reported. PTI nouncement regarding suspected Indian involvementin the Killing of Hardeep Singh Nijjar though againno definitive linktoa foreign state could be proven it said. The 123-page report also talked of expelling six Indian diplomats in reaction to a tar- geted campaign against Canadian citizens by agents linked to the Government of India.

206. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 142543.png
   Extracted Text: India-China thaw What fine print of the countries statements says SHUBHAJIT ROY NEW DELHI, JANUARY 29 IN A major diplomatic breakthrough, New Delhi and Beijing have decided on a slew of measures to repair bilateral ties resuming Kailash Mansarovar Yatra this summer, restoring direct flights between the two cap- itals, issuing visas for journalists and think tanks, and sharing trans-border river data, a statement from the Ministry of External Affairs MEA said on Monday. These decisions follow Foreign Secretary Vikram Misris recent visit to Beijing, where he met Chinas Foreign Minister Wang Yi, Vice Foreign Minister Sun Weidong, and Minister of International Department of the CCP Liu Jianchao. While undoubtedly sig- nalling a potential thaw in ties, the fine print of the two countries respective statements reveals some notable divergences. Framing  overall approach On the face of it, New Delhis statementis more nuanced and cautious compared to Beijings, which seems to have a more opti- mistic assessment of the talks. They also highlightthe two countrys overall approach. While the Indian statement emphasises ona step-by-step approach to address areas of interest and concern  referring to the border situation  the Chinese statementem- phasises on a more long term strategy. The two sides took stock of the extant mechanisms for functional exchanges. Itwas agreed to resume these dialogues step by step and to utilise them to address each others priority areas of interest and con- cern, said the Indian statement. In contrast, the Chinese statement said that both sides should view and handle China-India relations on the basis of the fun- damental interests of the two countries and two peoples and froma strategic height and long-term perspective... so as to promote the development of China-India relations along the sound and stable track. Some major developments MANSAROVAR YATRA On Kailash Mansarovar Yatra, the two statements al- most echo each other, but the Chinese state- ment reflects more urgency. The Indian statement said the two sides decided to resume the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra in the summer of 2025 the relevant mechanism will discuss the modalities for doing so as per existing agreements. The Chinese statement concurred, adding that the two sides will discuss relevant arrange- ments as soonas possible. DIRECT FLIGHTS As many as 539 scheduled direct flights, with a cumulative capacity of more than 1.25 lakh passengers, operated between India and China each month, as of 2019. They were paused dur- ing the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020. And fol- lowing the Galwan clash in June that year, they never resumed. On thisissue, acareful reading of the two statements shows that while Delhi wants a new pact, China has linked this to visas and resident journalists. The Indian statement said They agreed in principle to resume direct air services be- tween the two countries the relevant tech- nical authorities on the two sides will meet. and negotiate an updated framework for this purpose at an early date. China said The two sides agreed to re- sume direct flights between Chinese main- land and India, support the competent au- thorities of the two countries to coordinate and push it forward, and take measures to facilitate personnel flows and exchanges of resident journalists. Currently, there is only one Indian resi- dent journalist in China. There is no Chinese journalist in India. TRANS-BORDER RIVERS On trans- border rivers like the Brahmaputra, both sides agreed to hold an early meeting of the India-China Expert Level Mechanism. This will involve sharing of data, which has been anissue in recent times. Beijingin December cleared the construc- tionof the worlds largest dam on the Tsangpo Siang or Brahmaputra in India close to the Indian border, triggering worries in the lower riparian states of India and Bangladesh. New Delhi said it was not informed by the Chinese side about the dam project, something that has long been the conven- tion between the two countries, and learnt of it from media reports. Indian officials then reached out to their Chinese counter- parts about sharing information in advance, and consulting India and Bangladesh. Regular meetings and information sharing at the level of an expert-level mechanism  like the one both sides have agreed to hold soon, can prevent such situations in the future. Notable silences One of the two countries was silent on some key issues, Ontrade, the Indian side spelt outits con- cerns on market access and tariff barriers. Specific concerns in the economic and trade areas were discussed with a view to resolv- ing these issues and promoting long-term policy transparency and predictability, New Delhis statement said. The Chinese state- ment makes no mention of this. Conversely, on SCO, China said The Indian side will extend full support for Chinese presidency of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, and will actively participate in the meetings under the SCO umbrella. India makes no mention of this. LONGER VERSION ON indianexpress.comexplained

207. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 142627.png
   Extracted Text: Erdogan meets Hamas delegation in Ankara Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan met with Hamas leader Muhammad Ismail Darwish in Ankara on Wednesday, Erdogans office said ina state- ment. Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan and Intelligence Chief Ibrahim Kalin also at- tended the meeting, as well as other Hamas officials.

208. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 142635.png
   Extracted Text: ISRAELI FIREIN WEST BANK KILLS TWOMEN Jerusalem The Palestinian Health Ministry says two Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire in the West Bank overnight into Wednesday. A 23-year-old man was shot dead in Tulkarem and a 25- year-old man was killed ina strike on Jenin, where Israel launched a large operation earlier this month. There was noimmediatecommentfrom the Israeli military. AP

209. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 142649.png
   Extracted Text: SYRIA 74killedin strike byTurkey-allied forcesin north Damascus Atleast 14 civil- ians were killed and 29 wounded in attacks by Turkish-backed forces in northern Syriaon Monday and Tuesday, the U.S.- backed Kurdish militia group said, The Kurdish- led Syrian Democratic Forces SDF said Turkish- backed forces targeted a marketinthe city of Sarrin with drones on Tuesday, killing eight civilians and injuring20 others. Some of the wounded were in crit- ical condition, they said. Shelling by Turkish- backed forces on another area in northern Syria killed three civilians and injurednineon Tuesday, as pertheSDE. REUTERS

210. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 142712.png
   Extracted Text: CONGO Rebels move southward after seizing east city Goma Rwandan-backed M23 rebels in Democratic Republic of Congo were moving south on Wednesday towards Bukavu, the capital of South Kivu province, ap- parently bidding to ex- pand their area of control inthe countrys east after capturing the city of Goma. M23 forces were advancing south from the town of Minova, along the western side of Lake Kivu, according to five diplomatic and security sources, one of whom wasindirect contact with therebels.  REUTERS

211. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 142741.png
   Extracted Text: Putin says Kyiv unwilling to take legal way for talks, Zelenskyy rejects claim REUTERS MOSCOW, JANUARY 29 RUSSIAN PRESIDENT Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday that Ukraine could finda legal way to hold peace talks with Russia on ending their nearly three- year-old war, but Moscow sees nowillingness on Kyivs part toengage. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy immedi- ately dismissed President Putins statements questioning his legitimacy, saying that the Kremlin chief had shown he was  Vladimir Putin is afraid of strong leaders Zelenskyy afraid of talks and sought to pro- Jong the war. Putin told Russian state tele- vision that negotiations with Ukraine were complicated by Zelenskiys illegitimacy in re- maining in power beyond his mandate with no authority to sign documents. But essentially, if they want to proceed, there is a legal way to doit. Let the chairman of the Rada Ukraines parliament handle itin accordance with the constitution, Putin said. Zelenskyy, writing on Telegram, said Putin had once again confirmed that he is afraid of negotiations, afraid of strong leaders and is doing everything to prolong the war. Putins ac- tions, he said, were aimed at making the war endless.

212. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 142922.png
   Extracted Text: 27 migrants from Bangladesh arrested by Ernakulam police The Hindu Bureau KOCHI phe Ernakulam Rural pol- ice in Kerala took into cus- tody a group of 27 irregular migrants suspected to be of Bangladesh nationality from a house in the North Paravur police station li- mits on Thursday. The police detained a group of 54 persons. Ho- wever, only 27 of them re- portedly confessed to be from Bangladesh, accord- ing to the police. They have been in Kera- la for varying periods and all of them have been working, the police said. Most of them possessed Aadhaar cards. They claimed to have crossed the Bangladesh border and secured Indian documents with the help of some agents. The police were trying to track down the agents, The latest detentions have taken the number of suspected irregular mi- grants from Bangladesh to 34 this month alone in ru- ral limits.

213. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143101.png
   Extracted Text: Amid Gaza ceasefire, India revives diplomacy with West Asia, Europe for economic corridor NEWS ANALYSIS Suhasini Haidar NEW DELHI With a third round of hos- tage and prisoner exchang- es completed and signs that the Israel-Gaza cease- fire is still holding, reviving talks on the India-Middle East-Europe  Economic Corridor IMEC is back on the agenda in Indias diplo- matic outreach to the re- gion. Sources confirmed that External Affairs Minis- ter S. Jaishankar discussed taking forward infrastruc- ture and trade facilitation initiatives during his visit to the UAE this week. He is also expected to travel to Oman in mid-Fe- bruary for bilateral meet- ings and to address the In- dian Ocean Conference, being organised jointly by the Ministry of External Af- fairs MEA and the India Foundation, where he will meet with about 20 other S. Jaishankar with the UAEs Deputy Prime Minister Hamdan bin Mohammed Al Maktoum duringa meeting in Abu Dhabi. Pri counterparts from the re- gion as well. A visit by Qa- tari Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad AL-Thani is also being discussed. Diplomatic blitz IMEC will feature promi- nently during next weeks back-to-back Delhi visits by Greeces Foreign Minister Giorgos Gerapetritis who will hold Foreign Office consultations, and Egyp- tian Foreign Minister Badr Abdelatty for a strategic dialogue with Mr. Jaishan- kar. Mr. Abdelatty, who will visit a few weeks after the Gaza ceasefire and the reopening of the Rafah border crossing from Egypt to Gaza, is expected to share his views on the reconstruction of Gaza during his visit to India. Prime Minister Naren- dra Modi is also expected to discuss the IMEC project with French President Em- manuel Macron on his visit to France for the Artificial Intelligence Summit bet- ween February 10 and 12, and with new U.S. Pre dent Donald Trump during avvisit to Washington that is still being planned. Official and diplomatic sources said that while no specific moves on the pro- ject were being discussed at present, hopes for a sta- ble and lasting ceasefire in Gaza and the region had grown in the past few weeks. However, they con- ceded that it would be diffi- cult to pick up the diplo- macy over IMEC between Israel and Arab countries until there was some kind of commitment from the Netanyahu government re- garding talks for a two- state solution, which seemed unlikely for now. Greek optimism The Greek government has been keen to move ahead on the project, and Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has touted IMEC as a key element of the In- dia-Greece Strategic Partnership. The war in Gaza and turmoil in the Middle East is undoubtedly destabilis- ing but it does not under- mine the powerful logic be- hind IMEC. Nor should it weaken our resolve to work towards realising it, Mr. Mitsotakis had said during a visit to Delhi in Fe- bruary 2024. Officials in Delhi and Athens said they expected to take the dis- cussions on IMEC forward during Mr. Gerapetritiss visit, expected from Febru- ary 5 to 7. The Greek Fo- reign Minister is one of the few leaders to have visited both Tel Avivand Ramallah since the October 2023 at- tacks, and as a member of the UN Security Council this year, Greece occupies a key position on hopes to resolve the conflict. Mr. Abdelatty, is also ex- pected to discuss the pro- ject, although officials said the Egyptian government had been unhappy with the IMEC announcement, as they saw it as a geopolit- ical and commercial rival to the Suez Canal.

214. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143449.png
   Extracted Text: 2 infiltrators killed in gunfight close to Line of Control in Poonch, says Army The Hindu Bureau SRINAGAR Two infiltrators were Killed in an anti-infiltration oper- ation in the Pir Panjal val- leys Poonch on Friday, a day after a gunfight erupt- ed close to the Line of Con- trol Loc. Terrorist movement was detected last night at the LoC in the Poonch Sec- tor. Alert troops swiftly en- gaged the infiltrating ter- rorists, triggering an intense and heavy firefight. The operation continued through the night, leading tothe neutralisation of two terrorists, the Army said. Weapons recovered The Army said the search of the area resulted in the recovery of number of weapons and warlike stores. Operations conti- nue in the region, the Ar- my said. Later, a team of doctors, police officers, and a ma- gistrate visited the forward posts to conduct the post- mortem of the bodies of the slain militants. Meanwhile, a resident of Pakistan-occupied Kash- mir PoK, who was arrest- ed a week ago, was repa- triated on Friday. Officials said Moham- mad Faiz Yasir was handed over to the authorities at the Chakan Da Bagh gate in Poonch. He was appre- hended from a house in Salhotri village on January 25 night. Preliminary re- ports suggested that the a rested youth was mentally unstable.

215. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143527.png
   Extracted Text: Four years on, Myanmar and its continuing nightmare February 1, 2021, Myanmar, the sick man of Southeast Asia, continues to traverse a dismal path. The nation is fragmenting there is no peace and stability the economy is in ruins the people are suffering and the international community has other headaches to worry about. Myanmars deepening crisis has been forgotten or ignored by most nations, except perhaps the member-states of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ASEAN and neighbours such as, China and India. F our years after the military coup on Astocktaking The past four years have brought armed battles to homes, villages, and cities, with government troops fighting against their own people, represented by a variety of ethnic armed organisations EAOs and peoples defence forces PDFs in all parts of the country  north, south, east and west, not excluding the heartland where the majority Bamar community lives. The resistance is broadly coordinated by the unrecognised National Unity Government NUG. The costs of conflict are high. The Assistance Association for Political Prisoners AAPP estimated that, as of January 29, 2025, the military arrested 28,405 people, of whom 21,683 were still detained, and that it killed 6,224 people with around 2,900 treated as need to be verified killed persons. Besides, over 3.3 million people are now internally displaced across the country. Independent sources have spoken of indiscriminate attacks and unlawful killings by the junta that are characterized by their brutality and inhumanity. It should also be recognised that four years of continuous fighting have done untold damage to military personnel, resulting in Killings, injuries, desertions, and a general loss of morale. The junta is entering the fifth year of military rule, wrote Professor Zachary M. Abuza of the National War College, Rajiv Bhatia is a Distinguished Fellow at Gateway House, a former Ambassador of India to Myanmar, and the author of india Myanmar Relations Changing Contours The deepening crisis in the country seems to have been forgotten or ignored by most nations Myanmar is fragmenting Washington DC, with its power rapidly slipping away. The junta forces and the resistance are thus locked in a ceaseless war of attrition in which neither side can be a victor. Meanwhile, the country stands divided into three zones, The central part remains broadly under military control. Peripheral areas are generally with the resistance. Armed battles with, and aerial bombardments by, the military occur in civilian regions located in both zones. Inner demons continue to haunt the people of Myanmar. ASEANs role The crisis began in early 2021 when the military did not like the results of the elections held in November 2020 that gave Aung San Suu Kyis National League for Democracy victory. The 10-year-old experiment in limited democracy was rudely terminated as tanks rolled into the streets. Now, to end the impasse, the militarys preferred way out ironically is to hold another election. The generals tried to do this last year, but they failed. The question is, can they succeed this year? With at least half the country outside their control, elections, if held, will not represent the views of the entire populace. Besides, if they are organised under the present conditions of continuing violence and suppression, will they confer legitimacy on the next government that must necessarily be friendly to the military? Doubts exist. Notably, United Nations experts led by Tom Andrews, UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar, offered a forthright view. You cannot hold an election when you deposed a democratic government in an unconstitutional coup and continue to arbitrarily arrest, detain, disappear, torture, and execute opposition leaders, they warn. The notion that elections will resolve the political crisis is considered delusional by seasoned observers. However, the UN has outsourced the responsibility of mediation to ASEAN. ASEAN did what it could, but its Five-Point Consensus SPC remains stillborn because the cessation of hostilities and the commencement of national dialogue are unacceptable to the warring parties. Recently, ASEAN Foreign Ministers advised the millitary government to prioritise dialogue over holding elections, but this has been brushed aside. The neighbours in the picture The UN and ASEAN are unable to resolve matters for Myanmar. In that case, some experts argue that the nations neighbours, China, India, Thailand, Bangladesh, and Laos, must do something tangible, considering that the ongoing crisis directly threatens their interests. But there are challenges Myanmars borders with India and Bangladesh are now controlled by EAOs, not the government there is a lack of trust between India and China and India-Bangladesh relations are under serious stress. Therefore, the neighbours are unable to develop an internal consensus on how to persuade the government and opposition to move from conflict to peace. Thailand, the only big neighbour and an ASEAN member, is uniquely positioned to help, but it faces limitations that it cannot overcome. Meanwhile, China has substantially increased its influence since the coup. It will continue to be a dominant player, especially as the West shows declining interest in Myanmar. China is the only outside power with the means, capacity, and motivation to influence in Myanmars internal conflicts, wrote Bertil Lintner recently. Hence, the inescapable conclusion is that the people of Myanmar should stop hoping that help will come from the outside. If their leaders are unable to talk rather than let their guns do the talking, sadly, they, the people, will continue paying a hefty price for their leaders folly.

216. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143809.png
   Extracted Text: Indonesians pelt eggs at Malaysian embassy over shooting of migrant  Dozens of indonesians, angered over the shooting of an Indonesian migrant worker, threw eggs on Thursday at the Malaysian embassy in Jakarta. He was shot dead and four others wounded on January 24 after Malaysian officials opened fire on their boat for alleged trespassing in the waters off Tanjung Rhu Beach in Selangor. aP

217. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143816.png
   Extracted Text: OSLO Norway seizes Russian-crewed ship over suspected cable damage AFP ian police seized a Norwegian-owned ship at Latvias request over its suspected involvement in damage done to a Baltic Sea cable. The vessels owner rejected any wrongdoing, The Silver Dania was sailing between Saint Petersburg and Murmansk when it was stopped on Thursday evening off the coast of Tromso. AFP

218. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143823.png
   Extracted Text: US. claims to have killed senior al-Qaeda operative in Syria strike The US. military said it killed a senior operative of al-Qaedas Syria branch in an air strike on northwestern Syria on Thursday. US. Central Command forces conducted an air strike targeting and killing Muhammad Salah al-Zabir, a senior operative in the terrorist organisation Hurras al-Din, an al-Qaeda affiliate. are

219. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143831.png
   Extracted Text: TOKYO Japan scrambles jets as Russian bombers fly over high seas REUTERS. x Japan scrambled fighter jets after Russian bombers flew over international waters around the country, Tokyo said on Friday. The jets flew over the high seas of the Sea of Okhotsk and the Sea of Japan, Tokyos top government spokesman said. In response, Japan deployed Air Self-Defense Force fighter jets, he said. arP

220. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143840.png
   Extracted Text: Two killed in Israeli strikes on eastern Lebanon Agence France-Presse BEIRUT Overnight Israeli air strikes on the Bekaa Valley in east- ern Lebanon killed two persons, the Health Minis- try said on Friday, two months into a fragile ceasefire. The strike by the Israeli, enemy on Janta killed two persons and wounded 10, the Ministry said. The Israeli military said it struck multiple Hez- bollah targets in the Bekaa, astronghold of the militant group with which it fought a war last year. The village of Janta area lies close to the Syrian bor- der and the area was alrea- dy hit by Israeli strikes on January 13.

221. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143846.png
   Extracted Text: Ukrainian troops kill 22 in occupied village, says Russia ence France-Presse MOSCOW Moscow on Friday accused Ukrainian troops of killing 22 people in an occupied Russian village, including eight women who were al- legedly raped before being executed. Ukraine controls dozens of border settlements in the Kursk region of west- ern Russia since launching a surprise offensive in Au- gust and says about 2,000 Civilians still live in areas it occupies. Russia has now retaken several towns. Border village Russias Investigative Com- mittee had said on January 19 that it was investigating the killing of at least seven civilians in the village of Serious charge Russia said the victims included eight women who were raped by Kyivs troops before they were killed. AFP Russkoye Porechnoye, about 20 km from the Uk- rainian border. On Friday, it said it was now investigating the kill- ing of 22 residents bet- ween September and No- vember. Among the victims, whose bodies were found in the basements of several homes, were eight women who were allegedly raped before being Killed, the In- vestigative Committee said. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov accused the international community of ignoring Russias claims.

222. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143854.png
   Extracted Text: Hamas and Israel to carry out fourth hostage-prisoner swap The group will release three Israeli captives in exchange for 90 inmates held in Israeli jail as part ofa ceasefire JERUSALEM amas and Israel will carry out their fourth  hostage- prisoner swap of the Gaza ceasefire on Saturday, with the militant group to free three Israeli captives in ex- change for 90 inmates in Israel jails. Militants in Gaza began releasing hostages after the first 42-day phase of the ceasefire with Israel took effect on January 19. The hostages have been in cap- tivity for nearly 15 months. Hamas and Islamic Jihad militants have so far hand- ed over 15 hostages to the Relatives and supporters of israelis held hostage in, Gaza attend a protest in Israels capital of Tel Aviv on Friday. AFP International Committee of the Red Cross ICRC in exchange for hundreds of Palestinian prisoners. Israeli campaign group, the Hostage and Missing Families Forum, named the captives to be released on Saturday as Yarden Bi- bas, Keith Seigel, who also agreement Prime Minister Netanyahu confirms details of hostages to be released has US. citizenship, and Ofer Kalderon, who also holds French nationality. The office of Prime Mi- nister Benjamin Netanya- hu confirmed it had re- ceived the names of the three captives to be released. In exchange, Israel will free 90 prisoners, nine of whom are serving life sen- tences, the Palestinian Pri- soners Club advocacy group said. Militants took a total of 251 people hostage during their attack of October 7, 2023. Of those, 79 still re- main in Gaza, including at least 34 the military says are dead.

223. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143901.png
   Extracted Text: Junta extends state of emergency by six months in Myanmar Agence France-Presse YANGON Myanmars junta extended asstate of emergency by six months on Friday, four years after it seized power triggering a civil war that has killed thousands. The country is mired in a bloody conflict stemming from the February 1, 2021 putsch that ended a 10- year experiment with de- mocracy and jailed Nation- al League for Democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The military is strug- gling to contain armed re- sistance to its rule, suffer- ing a series of damaging battlefield losses over the past year to an alliance of ethnic minority armed groups in the north and west of the country. The ruling military council headed by Army chief Min Aung Hlaing un- animously approved the extension, the juntas infor- mation team said in a statement. Polls deferred Elections cannot be held under a state of emergen- cy, so long-promised polls the junta has said will be held in 2025 will not take place until the second half of the year at the earliest.

224. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143912.png
   Extracted Text: Rwanda-backed M23 rebels move south as volunteers rally to fight back in Congo ence France-Presse GOMA The  Rwandan-backed armed group M23 moved south as it closed in on a key military airport in DR Congo, with queues of young men volunteering to defend a provincial capital on Friday. The group captured most of Goma, the capital of North Kivu province, earlier this week and has vowed to march al the way to the capital Kinshasa. The weeks-long offen- sive has marked a dramatic escalation in a region that has seen conflict involving dozens of armed groups claim the lives of an esti- An M23 member keeps watch as people attend a protest against the Congolese government in Goma on Friday. AFP mated six million people over three decades. Rwanda says its primary interest is to eradicate fighters linked to the 1994 genocide. However, the country is accused of seek- ing to profit from the re- gions reserves of minerals used in global electronics. The crisis has rattled the continent and internation- al observers, with a south- ern African regional bloc holding an emergency summit in Zimbabwes capital Harare on Friday. M23 fighters are now moving south, with fight- ing concentrated some 30 km from the city of Kavu- mu. The city has a strategic military airfield and is where the Congolese Army has laid down its defensive line just 40 km north of South Kivus provincial capital Bukavu. The United Nations warned there were credi- ble reports that the M23 is moving rapidly towards the city of Bukavu.

225. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143928.png
   Extracted Text: Sri Lankan President . is ready to release Tamil land in Jaffna Press Trust of India Dissanayake was COLOMBO Visiting Jaffna for visiting Jaffna for the Sri Lanka President Anura first time since bein Kumara Dissanayake on lected President in Friday assured the north- September last year ern Tamils that their lands held by the military would be fully returned back to Northern Province of Sri them soon. Lanka. Mr. Dissanayake was vis- He said steps are being iting Jaffna, the northern taken to expedite the pro- capital, for the first time cess of returning land to its since being elected Presi- rightful owners. dent in September last During the armed con- year and stated that land flict since the 80s, the go- belonging to the people vernment has continuous- should rightfully remain _ ly seized the land of people with them. for military purposes. Jaffna is a Tamildomi- From 2015 there have been nated capital city of the releases from time to time.

226. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 143954.png
   Extracted Text: French journalist recalls 711 days as hostage of Islamic extremists in Mali Associated Press DAKAR. For a foreign correspon- dent in Mali, the assign- ment seemed like a dream as Islamic extremists upended the region, Oli- vier Dubois, a French jour- nalist, secured a rare inter- view with a leader of JNIM, an al-Qaidas affiliate in the Sahel. Or so he thought. En route to the interview in Gao, northern Mali, in April 2021, Mr. Dubois, a correspondent for Libra- tion and Jeune Afrique pu- blications, was kidnapped. He spent 711 days in des- ert captivity, sleeping chained to a tree, eating dried goat meat and plot- ting his escape. Nearly two years after his release, he recounts his ordeal in a book released Thursday in France. One of the main factors that helped me resist and survive was telling myself JNIM has been sible for most of 1,468 kidnappings in Sahel and Benin between 2017 and 2025, says ACLED that I am a journalist, Mr. Dubois said. The Sahel countries of Mali, Burkina Faso and Nig- er in recent years have been upended by military coups and are now led by military juntas, _ which struggle against rising ex- tremist violence and have made kidnappings a cor- nerstone of their strategy in the regiot Upon his release, French media published an investigation revealing that Mr. Duboiss fixer had worked with French intelli- gence, who used him to lo- cate the extremist leader he was trying to interview. Mr. Dubois said he knew his project was risky, but that he trusted his fixer too much and ignored the warning signs. Im not sure, he said of the circumstances sur- rounding his kidnapping. I think it was a betrayal. But the motive is not yet clear Kidnappings have sky- rocketed in the Sahel in re- cent years, according to data from the U.S-based Armed Conflict Location  Event Data Project, or ACLED. JNIM, the Sahelian branch of al-Qaida, has been responsible for most of the 1,468 kidnappings in Sahel and Benin between 2017 and 2025, according to the ACLED. The group relies on ransom money to fund their operations and on the fear they instill on local populations to keep them in check. Mr. Dubois recalled be- ing told he would be re- leased quickly if his fami- ly and government did as instructed. Mr. Dubois was released on March 20, 2023, in Agadez, Niger. French President Em- manuel Macron took to the social platform X to write Olivier Dubois is free, but he did not elaborate on the conditions of the release. Now that his book  Pri- sonnier du dsert, 7 jours aux mains dAL-Qaida, which translates in English into Prisoner of the desert, 711 days in the hands of Al- Qaida  is out, Dubois said he was hoping he was rea- dy to go back to journalism and move on. Painful labour But the experience still haunts him, It was painful labour, he said of the writ- ing process. The first re- flex after finishing it was to distance myself from the story, hoping time will pass and, maybe, all of that will be behind me. But I dont really know if thats possi- ble

227. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144005.png
   Extracted Text: 40 years on, Hama survivors remember horror of Assad-era massacre Agence France-Presse HAMA, Hayan Hadid was 18 when soldiers arrested him in his pyjamas and took him for execution in Syrias Hama in 1982, during one of the darkest chapters of the As- sad clans rule, ve never really talked about that, it was a secret. Only my family knew, said Mr. Hadid. In light of the December 8 ouster of Bashar al-Assad, we can talk at last, he said. On February 2, 1982, amid an information black- out, Assads father and then leader Hafez launched a crackdown in Hama in central Syria against an armed Muslim Brotherhood revolt. The banned movement had tried two years earlier to assassinate Hafez, and his brother Rifaat  was tasked with crushing the uprising in its epicentre. No one spared Survivors who witnessed extrajudicial executions said that the crackdown spared no one, with go- vernment forces killing men, women and children. The death toll of the 27 days of violence has never been formally established, though estimates range from 10,000 to 40,000, with some even higher. Lhad no ties with the Muslim Brotherhood, I was at school, said Mr. Hadid, now in his sixties. But my father was al- ways very afraid for me and my brother, he said. Mr. Hadids cousin Mar- wan had been an influen- tial figure in the Fighting Vanguard, an armed off- shoot of the Brotherhood. Afteer days of battles, soldiers turned up in Mr. Hadids neighbourhood and arrested around 200 men, taking them to a school. When night fell, around 40 were called by name and forced into trucks, their hands tied behind their backs, he said. Deadly escape Syrian Hayan Hadid centre, a survivor of the 1982 Hama crackdown, at his home in Hama, on Monday. AFP When the _ vehicles stopped, he realised they were ata cemetery. That means they are going to shoot us, said the person next to him, Blinded by the truck lights as he stood among rows of men for execution, Hadid said he felt a bullet zip past his head.  dropped to the ground and didnt move... I dont know how, it was an instinctive way to try to es- cape death, he said, A soldier opened fire again, and Mr. Hadid heard a wounded man say, please, kill me, before more shooting. Miraculously, Mr. Hadid survived. When the sol- diers left, he got up and set off, crossing the Orontes River before arriving at his uncles house. Forty-three years later, Bashar al-Assads ouster opened the way to gather- ing testimonies and comb- ing the archives of Syrias security services. In 1982, Camellia Bou- tros worked for Hamas hospital service, managing admissions. The bodies arrived by truck and were thrown in front of the morgue. Dead, dead, and more dead. We were overwhelmed, said Ms. Boutros, now an actor. Bodies bearing identity cards were registered by name, while others were recorded as unknown and classified by neigh- bourhood, she said. Mr. Boutros said the toll was 7,000 soldiers, around 5,000 Muslim Brotherhood members, and some 32,000 civilians. The Brotherhood is a conservative Sunni Muslim organisation with a pre- sence around the region, while the Assads, who stem from the minority Alawite community, pur- ported to champion secularism. Over more than half a century of rule, the Assads sowed terror among Syr- ians, imprisoning and tor- turing anyone even sus- pected of dissent. Mohammed Qattan was just 16 when he took up arms with the Fighting Vanguard. He was arrested in February 1982 and jailed for 12 years. When Bashar al-Assads 2011 crackdown on pro-de- mocracy protests sparked war, Mr. Qattan joined an armed group, eventually seeking exile in Turkiye. He returned home after As- sads ouster last month.

228. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144259.png
   Extracted Text: MOHAMMED SALEM  NIDALAL-MUGHRABI GAZA, CAIRO, FEBRUARY 1 HAMAS HANDED over three Israeli hostages on Saturday, and dozens of Palestinian prisoners and detainees were released in exchange, in the latest stage of a truce aimed at ending the 15- month war in Gaza. Ofer Kalderon, a French-Israeli dual national, and Yarden Bibas were handed overto Red Cross officials inthe southern Gaza city of Khan Younis before being transferred to Israel. Israeli-American Keith Siegel was handed over sepa- rately at the Gaza City seaport. Hours later, the first of 183 Palestinian prisoners and de- tainees due to be released as part of the exchange got off a bus in Ramallah in the West Bank, where they were greeted by large crowds waiting to receive them. Atthe newly reopened Rafah crossingon the southern border, children suffering from cancer and heart conditions were among the first Palestinian pa- tients to be allowed to leave Gaza for medical treatment in Egypt. Saturdayshandover saw none of the chaotic scenes that over- shadowed an earlier transfer on Thursday, when Hamas guards struggled to shield hostages from asurging crowd in Gaza. The handover brings the to- tal number of hostages so far handed over to 18, including five Released French-Israeli hostage, Ofer Kalderon reunited with his family in Ramat Gan, Israel right a Palestinian woman with her sick child before leaving Gaza for treatment through Rafah crossing, in Khan Younis on Saturday. Reuters Thais who were part of an un- scheduled release on Thursday. In Israel, crowds gathered at the location in Tel Aviv known as Hostage Square to watch the re- lease on giant outdoor screens. Meanwhile, Arab foreign ministers Saturday rejected the transfer of Palestinians from their land under any circum- stances, presenting a unified stance against US President Donald Trumps call for Egypt and Jordan to take in residents of the Gaza Strip. The foreign min- isters and officials from Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the UAE, the Palestinian Authority and the Arab League said such a move would threaten stability in the region and undermine prospects for peace. Ceasefire negotiations to restart Tuesday Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is expected to meet US. President Donald Trump on Tuesday with the ceasefire in Gaza, and a possible normalisa- tion of relations with Saudi Arabia as part of a postwar deal likely to be a focus. During the first phase of the ceasefire, 33 children, women and older male hostages as well as sick and in- jured, were due to be released, with over 60 men of military age left for a second phase which must still be worked out. Negotiations are due to start by Tuesday on agreements for the release of the remaining hostages and the withdrawal of Israeli troops from Gaza ina sec- ond phase of the deal, which should lead to a final end of the deadly war in Gaza. The initial six-week truce, agreed with Egyptian and Qatari mediators and backed by the US, has so far stayed on track despite anumber of incidents that have led both sides to accuse the other of violating the deal. REUTERS

229. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144310.png
   Extracted Text: UNITED KINGDOM Chagos deal UK demands strong protection for military base London British Prime Minister Keir Starmer on Friday told his Mauritian counterpart,  Navin Ramgoolam, that he wants strong protec- tions, including from malign influence, for a US.-British military base on Diego Garcia, accord- ing to a statement from Downing Street. Britain strucka deal in October to cede sovereignty of the Chagos Islands to Mauritius, while retain- ing control under a 99- year lease of the military base on Diego Garcia, the largest island of the Chagos Archipelago in the Indian Ocean. However, Ramgoolam, who was elected in November, has questioned the deal agreed by his predecessor and itis yet to be ratified. Britain is waiting for the new Donald Trump ad- ministration to review the deal. REUTERS

230. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144327.png
   Extracted Text: US wants elections in Ukraine after a ceasefire Trump envoy REUTERS WASHINGTON, FEBRUARY 1 THE UNITED States wants Ukraine to hold elections, poten- tially by the end ofthe year, espe- cially if Kyiv can agree atruce with Russia in the coming months, President Donald Trumps top Ukraine official told Reuters. Keith Kellogg, Trumps spe- cial envoy for Ukraine and Russia, said in an interview that Ukrainian presidential and par- liamentary elections, suspended during the war with Russia, need to be done. Most democratic nations have elections in their time of war.  think it is important they do so, Kellogg said. I think it is good for democracy. Thats the beauty ofa solid democracy, you have more than one person po- tentially running Trumpand Kellogghave both said they are working ona plan to broker a deal in the first sev- eral months of the new adminis- tration to end the all-out war that erupted with Russias full- scale invasion in February 2022. They have offered few details about their strategy for ending the deadliest conflict in Europe since World WarTwo, nor when they might unveil such a plan. Rescuers at the site of a Russian airstrike in Poltava, Saturday. Reuters It is unclear how such a Trump proposal would be greeted in Kyiv. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has said Ukraine could hold elections this year if the fighting ends and strong security guaranteesare in place to deter Russia from re- newing hostilities.

231. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144342.png
   Extracted Text: ATLEAST 18 security personnel and 23 terrorists were killed dur- ing clashes between the two sides in Pakistans southwestern Balochistan province. The military said the terror- ists were killed in different areas of troubled Balochistan in the last24 hours. Inone such opera- tion in Harnai district on Saturday, national troops effec- tively engaged the terrorists, Killing 11 militants and destroy- ing multiple terrorist hideouts. Earlier on Friday night, 12 ter- rorists were killed while security forces successfully thwarted mil- itants attempt to establish road- blocks in the Mangocher area of Kalat. Thus far a total of 23 ter- rorists have been sent to hell in different operations  in Balochistan in the last 24 hours, the army said, adding the saniti- zation operations will continue until perpetrators and facilitators ofthe heinous and cowardly act are brought to justice. The army said the security forces were determined to wipe out the menace of terrorism from not only Balochistan but the entire Pakistan. However, no one immediately claimed re- sponsibility for the attacks. Balochistan is in the grip of violence perpetrated by the Baloch extremists who regularly attack the security forces and people belonging to other provinces. Balochistan is Pakistans largest province but it isthe least developed.

232. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144355.png
   Extracted Text: SYRIA. Officer who triggered 2011 uprising arrested Damascus Syrian author- ities have arrested a for- mer senior security offi- cer and cousin of ousted leader Bashar al-Assad seen by some as respon- sible for sparking the countrys 2011 uprising due to a crackdown on protests in the southern city of Daraa, state media said. Atef Najib, a brigadier general and for- mer head of the Political Security Department in Daraa, was held by General Security forcesin the countrys western Latakia province, SANA said. REUTERS

233. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144414.png
   Extracted Text: 8 Maoists killed, 2 cops injured in gunfight in Chhattisgarhs Bijapur EXPRESSNEWS SERVICE RAIPUR, FEBRUARY 1 EIGHT MAOISTS were Killed ina major gun battle with security forces in the Gangalur forest in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh on Saturday morning, police said. Two personnel of the District Reserve GuardDRG,a unitof the state police, were also injured in the gunfight, he said. The gunfight broke out around 8.30 am when DRG and SIF of the state police, along with CRPF and its elite unit CoBRa, were conducting a joint anti- Naxalite operation, Inspector General of Police Bastar Range Sundarraj P said. The bodies of eight Naxalites have been recovered from the The ammunition seized in the encounter in Gangalur spot. Many more ultras have ei- ther been killed or injured. The search operation at the site is stil underway. We have recovered an Insas rifle, a barrel grenade launcher and other weapons from the spot, the IGP said. Bijapur SP Jitendra Kumar Yadav said, We received informa- tion on presence of divisional committee member Dinesh, company number 2 of Peoples Liberation Guerilla Army, PLGA platoon and militia company, based onwhichthe operation was carried out. All eight Maoists killed in Saturdays encounter are men. Their identities are yetto beascer- tained, Sundarraj said. During the gunfight two DRG men also sus- tained minor injuries and were being treated, the IGP said. Chief Minister Vishnu Deo Sai hailed the security forces for the success. The state government has been working with full com- mitment to eliminate Naxalism. Todaysencounterisabigsuccess forthe security forces. Isalute their courage, Sai said ina statement. With this encounter, 49 Maoists have been killed in the state so far this year. Of them, 33 were killed in Bastar division com- prising seven districts, including Bijapur. WITHPTIINPUTS

234. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144434.png
   Extracted Text: MEMBERS OF JK Peace Forum, an organisation founded by Kashmiri Pandits, met promi- nent Kashmiri leader and cleric Mirwaiz Umar Farooq Thursday inabidto advance the prospects of an inter-community reconcil- iation to pave the way for the re- turn of Kashmiri Pandits to the Union Territory. Inthe meetingit was decided that steps would be taken for an inter-community consultation committee to revive the com- posite culture of Kashmir and ensure that all communities can live there in harmony. ...Mirwaiz reaffirmed that the plight of Kashmiri Pandits is a humanitarian issue and must be addressed with care and ur- gency, the forum said ina state- ment. Kashmir is incomplete without Kashmiri Pandits. Satish Mahaldar of the JK Peace Forum said the consulta- tion committee would explore the possibility of designated colonies being set up in JK for the safe return of the displaced. We are Hindus but we have Kashmiri prefixed to our iden- tity, and we are keen to nurture that identity, he said.

235. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144627.png
   Extracted Text: ANEX-SERVICEMAN was killed, and his wife and niece were in- jured, when gunmen opened fire at them in south Kashmirs Kulgam on Monday. Thisis the first militant attack inthe Valley this year.

236. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144714.png
   Extracted Text: Manipur violence SC seeks forensic report on audio tapes Petitioner alleged the clips establish CM Biren Singhs role in ethnic violence EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE NEW DELHI, FEBRUARY 3 THE SUPREME Court Monday sought a sealed-cover report from the Central Forensic Sciences Laboratory, which is ex- amining the leaked audio tapes that, according to a Kuki body, established Manipur CMN Biren Singhs role in fuellingeth- nic conflict in the state. Abench of Chief Justice of India Sanjiv Khanna and Justice Sanjay Kumar directed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for Manipur, that the report be produced before it on the next date of hearing on March 24. The petitioner, Kuki Organization for Human Rights Trust, has sought an independ- ent investigation based on the tapes into Birens alleged role in the violence, which has killed more than 200 people in Manipur since last May. The Manipur government has termed the clipsas fake and said that they were released on social media in an attempt to derail peace initiatives. It is pointed out that audio clips have been sent for exami- nation by the CFSL. The report would be produced in sealed cover before the court on the next date of hearing, the court directed. Atthe very outset, Cj Khanna told advocate Prashant Bhushan, who appeared for the petitioner, There are two things, Onethe state is gradually limping back to normalcy. We will keep it on hold. The second issue is whether we should entertain it or the High Court should enter- tainit Bhushan said the transcripts of the tapes were very serious and implicated the CM. The CJ said he had not gone through the transcripts. Bhushan said the petitioner had sent the tapes to Truth Labs which has far more expertise and credibility than CFSL... and that the lab had said it was his Birens voice in the tapes. SG Mehta pointed out that Truth Labs was run by private in- dividuals. He said the petitioner has some ideological inclina- tions and that the court-ap- pointed committee of former judges has filed reports saying these civil society organisations are wanting to keep the pot boil- ing... That appears to be the in- tention. Let that not happen. Mehta was referring to the Justice Gita Mittal Committee, which was constituted by the SC last August to address the hu- manitarian concerns stemming from the violence. Mehta said an FIR had al- ready been lodged in August and the petition was filed in November My objection is not delay only but we said that whatever they have supplied has been sent to CFSLand a report is awaited. Whoever has uploaded on their Twitter X account, we have approached them also asking if you have the original, please give it to us so that its ve- racity can be checked. The CJl said, We are careful. Thats why I said in the begin- ning itself. This should not be- come another issue. At the same time, I dont know the contents of the tran- scripts, and the veracity also. Thats for you people to exam- ine... Let the FSL report come, the Cjl added. Meanwhile, the SC made it clear that the states objection as to why the petitioner could not have approached the HC will re- main open and Mondays order will have no bearing onit.

237. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144808.png
   Extracted Text: Calm in Manipur but storm on border with Myanmar, security forces on high alert Amid gunfights in Sagaing region of Myanmar, Meitei insurgent groups say they suffered casualties SUKRITABARUAH GUWAHATI, FEBRUARY 3 AMID A lull in incidents of vio- lence in Manipur, security forces have been putonhighalertdueto gun battles and explosions near the states border with Myanmar over the past week. Fierce gunfights broke out in the Sagaing region of Myanmar acountry in the middle of acivil war  on January 27, The area is close to Manipurs Kamjong dis- trict. Kamjong SP Ningshem Vashum said firing hascontinued close tothe border. The firefights are still taking place butacross the border, within the jurisdiction of Myanmar. We are on high alert, and along with the Assam Rifles, we have opened three new check- posts along the border  from Namlee to Phaikok. Right now, there is no border crossing hap- pening on this stretch, and there isno ripple on our side, he said. Because the violence is taking place across the border, officials from the security forces deployed in Manipur said they have no de- tails of which groupsare involved orhow many lives have been lost. However, in the last week, three different. banned insurgent groups from Manipurs Meitei- majority valley, whichhavebases in Myanmar, have claimed that their cadres were Killed. OnJanuary 31, publicfuneral was held in Imphal Easts Andro area to honour a member of the proscribed group Peoples Liberation Army PLA, who had reportedly been killed in Myanmar, close to the border,on January 27, In a_ statement, the Revolutionary Peoples Front, the armed wing of which is the PLA, claimed that PLA 2nd Lieutenant Henthoiba had died inanencounter with proxy en- emies. Following this, on Sunday, two other valley-based groups - the UNLFs Koireng fac- tion and the KYKL- claimed that they lost one member each on January 30 ina gunfight against the Kuki National Army-Burma and the Indian military, Similar allegations had also been made last year by the Naga insurgent group NSCNIM, alleging proxy warfare in Myanmar territory. Indian security forces have denied the allegations. Valley- based insurgent groups, which have seen a rise in activities and recruitmentafter the start of the ongoing conflictin the state, have bases in Myanmar, where they are known to fight alongside the military junta against the rebel Peoples Defence Force and Ethnic Armed Organisations, in- cluding the KNAB. There have also been reports ofdeaths of Kuki-Zopeopleinthe ongoing fights in Myanmar, close to Kamjong, However, unlike the valley-based insurgent groups,no Kuki-Zo group has claimed the deaths of its members.

238. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144824.png
   Extracted Text: Chhattisgarh Maoist killed, weapon seized JAYPRAKASH S NAIDU RAIPUR, FEBRUARY 2 POLICE SAID Monday that they found the body of a Maoist who was killed in an encounter that took place on Sunday afternoon in Chhattisgarhs Bastar region. At around 2.30 pm on Monday, forces confirmed they found one body and that search operations were underway. A self-loading rifle SLR was re- covered from the deceased, who was Wearing the uniform of the Peoples Liberation Guerrilla Army PLGA, an armed wing of the banned Communist Party of India Maoist, police said. Acting on information about the presence of armed Maoists from North Bastar division and Maad division of the CPI Maoist, security forces comprising District Reserve Guard DRGand Border Security Force BSF be- gan an operation. Around 12.30 pm on Sunday, an exchange of fire took place and intermittent firing went on for hours. There is a possibility of some Maoists being killed and few others be- ing injured. Our search opera- tions are going on, said a police officer.

239. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144949.png
   Extracted Text: 19 killed in car bomb blast in northern Syria Damascus Acar bomb exploded on the outskirts of a northern Syrian city on Monday, killing at least 19 people, all but one of them women, and leaving more thanadozen wounded, hospital workers said. The car detonated next toa vehicle carrying mostly female agricultural workers on the out- skirts of the city of Manbij. The dead included 18 women. and one man,a nurse atthe hospi- tal, Mohammad Ahmad, told The Associated Press. Another 15 women were wounded, some of themincritical condition, accord- ingtothe local Syrian civil defence. No group immediately claimed responsibility for the explosion. It was the seventh car bomb explo- sion in Manbij in just over a month, said Munir Mustafa, the deputy director of civil defence. Manbij in Aleppo continues to witness violence even after the downfall of President Bashar al-Assad in December. Aresident said the car that detonated was parked on the roadside. AP

240. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 144956.png
   Extracted Text: AFGHANISTAN Shooting at Kabul UN compound kills 7 Kabul A shooting at the United Nations compound inKabul killed one person and injured another, the UNmissionin Afghanistan said Monday. A UN guard post was shot at Sunday by a Taliban fighter who was positioned outside the perimeter wall, according tothe UN. UN-contracted security guards did notre- turn fire. Oneinternational guard sustained minor in- juries, the UN said, The Taliban fighter was later found dead outside the compound. AP

241. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 145051.png
   Extracted Text: HAITI Gangs attack elite area, 40 killedin 8 days Port-au-Prince Heavily armed gangsin Haiti have attackedaneighbourhood thatshome to most of the countrys elite and had been largely untouched by criminals, and police have demanded help repelling the assault that has killed at least 40 people. Its been eight days since Kenscoff has been under attack, Mayor Jean Massillon told The Associated Press on Monday. He blamed the attack on the Viv Ansanm gang coalition, with gun- men going home to home and indiscriminately opening fire. As we speak, they have surrounded the area, Massillon said as he called for reinforcements. The dead include pastors, teachers and children, al- though the number is ex- pectedtobehigher. AP

242. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 145104.png
   Extracted Text: At least 10 killed as gunman attacks adult education centre in Sweden Police say suspect acted alone, believed to be among those killed motive unclear JOHAN AHLANDER  SIMON JOHNSON STOCKHOLM, FEBRUARY 4 AROUND 10 people have been killed in a shooting at an adult education centre, Swedish po- lice said, the deadliest attack to take place in Sweden on what the prime minister said was a painful day for the country. The gunmanis believed tobe among those killed anda search is continuing at the school for other possible victims, the local police chief told a press confer- ence. The perpetrators motive was not immediately known. We know that 10 or so peo- ple have been Killed here today. The reason that we cant be more exact currently is that the extent of the incident is so large, local police chief Roberto Eid Forest told reporters. Forest said police believed the gunman hadacted alone and that they did not currently sus- pect terrorism as a motive, though he cautioned that much remained unknown. He said the suspected gunman had not pre- viously been known to police. We have a big crime scene, we have to complete the searches we are conducting in the school. There are a number ofinvestigative steps we are tak- ing a profile of the perpetrator, witness interviews... Obviously, its a significant amount of work. he said. Police said they had opened aninvestigation into murder, ar- sonandan aggravated weapons offence and that the search for possible further victims had con- tinued into the evening. The shooting took place in Orebro, some 200 km west of Stockholm, at the Risbergska school for adults who did not complete their formal education. Itis located ona campus that also houses schools for children. tis avery painful day for the whole of Sweden, Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson said on X. My thoughts are also with allof those whose normal school day was turned into fear. Being locked up ina classroom fearing for your life is a nightmare no one should have to experience. We started running Maria Pegado, 54, a teacher at the school, said someone threw open thedoortoherclass- room just after lunch break and shouted to everyone to get out. tookall my 15 students out into the hallway and we started running, she told Reuters by phone. hen I heard two shots but we made it out. We were close to the school entrance... I saw people dragginginjured out, firstone, then another.  realised itwas very serious, she said. Police said students had been kept indoors at the school that was targeted and at other schools nearby for their safety. Police later began evacuating those who had taken shelter. Sweden has been struggling with a wave of shootings and bombings caused by anendemic gang crime problem but fatal school attacks are rare. REUTERS

243. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 145114.png
   Extracted Text: SYRIA al-Sharaa to hold defence talks with Erdogan Brussels Syrias transi- tional President Anmed al-Sharaa and Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan are expected to discuss a joint defense pact in Ankara on Tuesday, in- cluding  establishing Turkish airbases in cen- tral Syria and training for Syrias new army, four sources familiar with the matter said. This is the first time that elements of any strategic defense arrangement by Syrias new leaders, including details of additional Turkish bases, have come tolight. REUTERS

244. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 145125.png
   Extracted Text: Trump  Netanyahu sit for talks Hamas says discussions begin for truce Phase 2 MATT SPETALNICK  STEVE HOLLAND WASHINGTON, FEBRUARY 4 WHEN BENJAMIN Netanyahu meets US President Donald Trump on Tuesday, the Israeli prime minister is expected to try to turn the page on sometimes tense relations with the Biden White House as the two leaders address the future of the Gaza ceasefireand waysto counter Iran. But Netanyahu, the first for- eign leader to be hosted by Trump since the pro-Israel pres- idents Jan. 20 inauguration, could also come under pressure from an American leader whose policy goals for the Middle East may not always coincide with Netanyahus interests. Their meeting coincided with the scheduled resumption ee L of indirect negotiations this weekbetween Israel and Hamas onthe crucial second stage of the ceasefire deal and hostage re- lease. The two men will hold a joint press conference and then Reuters Palestinians remove the rubble in the south Gaza, Tuesday have dinner together. Hamas officials said Tuesday that theyve begun talks with in- ternational mediators over the second phase of the ceasefire in Gaza that began last month. The accord mapped outthree phases of negotiations toend the 15-month war. The first, which beganJan. 19, halted fighting, expanded the amount of humanitarian aid let into Gaza and exchanged Palestinian prisoners for Israeli hostages taken to Gaza during the Oct. 7, 2023, attack. Yet international mediators left questions for later negotia- tions about further hostage and prisonerreleases, anindefinite ex- tension of the truce and who will govern Gaza after hostilities end. In his first term, Trump handed Netanyahu a series of successes, including relocation ofthe US.embassy to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv and the signing of the Abraham Accords, normal- izing relations between Israel and several Arab states. REUTERS, WITHAP INPUTS

245. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 145244.png
   Extracted Text: Day after killing of retired soldier, JK police detain over 500 people BASHAARAT MASOOD SRINAGAR, FEBRUARY 4 ADAY after suspected militants killed a retired soldier and wounded his wife and niece in south Kashmir, Jammu and Kashmir Police detained over 500 people from across the Kashmir Valley. Alarge number of those de- tained were relatives of Kashmiri militants based in Pakistan and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir PoK. There have been massive detentions across the Kashmir Valley and the number is well above 500, a senior police offi- cer told The Indian Express. I dont remember deten- tions on this scale in the recent past following amilitantattack, the officer said. The officer said the detentions were made to send a message to militants operating from across the border that such attacks wont betolerated, and that in the past, sending such messages have had the desired results. Unidentified gunmen on Monday opened fire at a retired soldier, Manzoor Ahmad Wagay, his wife and herniece in Behibagh village of south Kashmirs Kulgam. While Wagay 45, who was hit in the abdomen, was killed in the attack, the two women werehitin the legandare undergoing treatment. They militants have crossed the red line this time by targeting the family members of the soldier, a police officer said. While police have, over the last few years, targeted Pakistan- based Kashmiri militants by seizing their houses and proper- ties in the Valley, this is for the first time that their family mem- bers and relatives are being de- tained simultaneously in such large numbers,

246. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 145317.png
   Extracted Text: JAYPRAKASH S NAIDU RAIPUR, FEBRUARY 4 THREE SECURITY personnel were injured during anti-Maoist operations under the jurisdic- tion of Gangalur police station in Bijapur district in Chhattisgarh onTuesday. This came a day after Maoists allegedly murdered two residents of Budgicheru village in the dis- trict branding them as Mukhbirinformers. One ofthe victims had quit Naxalism, while the second victims brother was also killed few yearsago suspect- ing him to be an informer too. Personnel of District Reserve Guard DRG from three districts and the Central Reserve Police Force CRPF undertook the op- eration after getting information about the presence of Maoists in the area. During the operation, one of the personnel stepped on an im- provised explosive device, trigger- ing an explosion in which he and another jawan were injured. The two personnel Madkam Bhima from DRG Sukma district and Pramod Kumar from Dantewada. Separately, ajawan Vijay Kashyap from the Dantewada DRG stepped on a spike hole trap and suffered injuries, all three jawans were evac- uated and sent toa higher med- ical facility for better treatment. They are out of danger, said Inspector General of Police for Bastar Range, Sundarraj P. In January this year, as many as 36 IEDs have either been de- tected and defused or exploded and injured jawans in Bijapur, a senior official said. In a separate incident, Maoists murdered two village residents after branding them police informers. Thisis the fifth murder of a villager in Bijapur this year by Maoists over the same reason. The incident took place in Budgicheru, which is approxi- mately 75 km away from Bijapur districtheadquarters and comes under the jurisdiction of Tarrem police station. The dead were identified as Karam Raju Bare, 32, from Talab Paraand Madvi Munna, 27, from Nayapara. Karam had left Naxalism and had returned to his village. Madvi was previously beaten up by Naxals suspecting him to be an informer and few years ago his brother was mur- dered over the same reason.Their bodies were found on Tuesday with their throats slit. On Monday night Jagargunda area commitee Maoists dragged the victims out of their house and attacked them on their necks and left chits branding them, Mukbhir. According toa police source, Bijapur has thousands of militia cadre, making it the most Maoist-affected district among the seven such districts in Chhattisgarhs Bastar region. A majority of Maoist violence and arrests take place in Bijapur.

247. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 145505.png
   Extracted Text: Army pension SC pulls up Centre for dragging retired personnel to court, says frame policy PRESS TRUST OF INDIA NEW DELHI, JANUARY 30 THE SUPREME Court on Thursday pulled up the Centre for dragging retired armed forces personnel to court and asked it to frame a policy on the issue. Abench of Justices Abhay S Oka and Ujjal Bhuyan said each and every member ofthe armed forces who was awarded relief of disability pension from the Armed Forces Tribunal need not be dragged to the top court and the Centre ought to exercise some discretion in filing appeals. There has to be some prag- matic view. An army personnel works for 15, 20 years and sup- pose there is some disability,and order of the Armed Forces Tribunal directs payment of dis- ability pension. Why should these persons be dragged to the Supreme Court? asked the bench. Itwenton,Weare ofthe view that the Union government must evolve a policy. There has to be somescrutiny beforeadecisionis taken to drag members of the armed forces to the Supreme Court. Observing frivolous ap- peals were being filed by the Centre, the apex court said the morale of the armed forces could- ntbe letdown by filingsuch pleas against the relief, You say whether you are willing to frame a policy. And if you say no then we will have to start imposing heavy costs whenever we find that the ap- peal appears to be frivolous, the bench cautioned the Centres counsel.

248. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 145530.png
   Extracted Text: TWO MILITANTS were killed in a gunfight with the Army along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmits Poonch Thursday evening while trying to infiltrate from Pakistan- occupied-Kashmir PoK. Police sources said three mili- tants tried tocrossintoIndia from Poonchs Khari Karmara. While two were Killed in the gun battle, the third managed to escape into PoK, a source said. The infiltration attempt comes ata time of increased se- curity at the border following in- telligence inputs about possible incursions. Sources say security forces have been conducting searches in Doda and Kathua in Jammu following reports of mil- itants having come down to these areas from higher reaches, Thisalsocomesaftera marked decline in militant activity in Jammus Poonch and Rajouri dis- trict throughout last year. According to the sources, the searches are part of an anti-mil- itancy strategy before the onset of summer. It also comes just over a week after the JK DGPs visit to the strategically impor- tant location of Basantgarh.

249. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 145655.png
   Extracted Text: SWEDEN Anti-Islam campaigner shot dead, 5 arrested Stockholm Swedish police arrested five people on Thursday after an Iraqi anti-Islam campaigner was shot dead hours be- fore a court verdict was due inatrial overhisburn- ingtheKoran,asthe prime minister expressed con- cerns over the killings links to a foreign power. The five were arrested in connection with the shooting of Salwan Momika, 38, an Iraqi refugee, in a house in Sodertalje near Stockholm Wednesday, and ordered detained after a prosecu- tors order, police said. Swedish prime minister Ulf Kristersson said Momikaskilling might be linked toa foreign power. Vice Prime Minister Ebba Busch condemned the murder, REUTERS

250. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 145711.png
   Extracted Text: UKRAINE Russian drone strikes kills at least four Kyiv A Russian drone blasted hole in an apart- ment building in north- eastern Ukraine during a nighttimeattack, killing at Jeast four people and injur- ing nine others, officials said Thursday. The Shahed drone blew outa wall and surrounding windows in the apartment block in Sumy, a major city, just af- ter 1 am, the Sumy re- gionaladministration said. Four people were rescued from the rubble, and a child was among the in- jured, it said, adding 120 were evacuated. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy calleditaterti- ble tragedy, a terrible Russian crime. AP.

251. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 145720.png
   Extracted Text: SOUTH AFRICA Jacob Zumas daughterheldon terror charges Johannesburg A daughter of former South African President Jacob Zuma has been arrested and is ex- pected to appear in court onThursday to face terror- ism charges. Duduzile Zuma-Sambudla, who is also a member of the South African Parliament, is accused of inciting vio- lence during riots in July 2021 which led to the deaths of more than 350 people. She handed herself overto police on Thursday, police said. Her party con- firmed that Zuma- Sambudla would appear incourt Thursday. AP

252. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 145726.png
   Extracted Text: Stop sea aggression, will return US missiles, Philippines tells China ASSOCIATED PRESS MANILA, JANUARY 30 PHILIPPINE PRESIDENT Ferdinand Marcos Jr offered on Friday to remove a US missile system from the Philippines if China halts what he called its aggressive and coercive behav- iour in the disputed South China Sea. The US Army installed the Typhon mid-range missile sys- tem in the northern Philippines in April lastyear to support what the longtime treaty allies de- Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos Jr. File scribed as training for combat readiness, China has repeatedly de- manded that the Philippines re- move the missile system, saying itwas inciting geopolitical con- frontation and an arms race. Lets make a deal with China Stop claiming our terri- tory, stop harassing our fisher- men and let them have a living, stop ramming our boats, stop water cannoning our people, stop firing lasers at us and stop your aggressive and coercive be- haviour, and well return the ty- phoon missiles, Marcos said. Chinese officials did not im- mediately comment on the Philippine leaders remarks,

253. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153027.png
   Extracted Text: REUTERS JERUSALEM, GAZA, JAN25 HAMASFREED four female Israeli soldiers on Saturday in exchange for 200 Palestinian prisoners, the second swap under the Gaza truce, although Israel halted fam- ilies from returning to bombed- out north Gaza over a delay in an- other hostages release. The four freed Israelis were led onto a podium in Gaza City amid alarge crowd of Palestinians and surrounded by dozens of armed Hamas men. They waved and smiled before being led off, enter- ing Red Cross vehicles tobe trans- ported to Israeli forces. Soon after, buses carrying re- leased Palestinian prisoners were seen departing from the Israeli military prison in the occupied West Bank. Israels Prison Service said all 200 had been released. The releases on either side were greeted by cheering crowds, including Israelis gathered in Tel Avivand Palestinians in Ramallah. Butthe failure of Hamasto release another hostage led Israel to an- nounce it was halting plans to let Palestinians return to northern parts of Gaza. Hamas said it would free her next week. Palestinian of- ficials say as many as 650,000dis- placed people are waiting to re- turn to the north. Witnesses said there was a stampede on a road leading to the north, blocked by Israeli troops who opened fire. The four Israeli soldiers freed on Saturday  Karina Ariev, Daniella Gilboa, Naama Levy and LiriAlbag hadall been stationed ata poston theedge of Gazawhen Hamas fighters overran their base and abducted them during the October 7, 2023 attack. Among the 200 Palestinians, around 70 will be deported to Egypt, Palestinian officials said, and from there to another coun- try, possibly Turkey, Qatar or Algeria. Another 16 were sent to Gazaand the rest were released to the Israeli-occupied West Bank. Joy in Israel was clouded by disappointmentafter it emerged that Arbel Yehud, 29, who had been abducted with her boyfriend from their home in Kibbutz Nir Oz, was not among those released. Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu said Palestinians in Gaza would notbe allowed to cross to the northern part until the issue was resolved.

254. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153037.png
   Extracted Text: PHILIPPINES Manila China harassing fishing vessels Manila Chinese coast guard ships andaChinese navy helicopter harassed agroup of Philippine fish- eries vessels conducting a scientific survey in a hotly disputed area of the South China Sea, forcing them to cancel the opera- tion, the Philippine coast guard said Saturday. Beijing has repeatedly as- serted sovereignty over most of the South China Sea and accused rival claimant states, including the Philippines, Vietnam and Malaysia of en- croachment. China has demarcated its territorial claims with a 10 dashed- line printed on maps but has not provided the ex- actcoordinates. AP

255. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153055.png
   Extracted Text: SUDAN Fighting sets ablazecountrys largest oil refinery Dubai Fighting around Sudans largest oil refin- ery set the sprawling complex ablaze, satellite data analysed by The Associated Press on Saturday shows, sending thick, black smoke over the countrys capital. Forces loyal to Sudans military under army chief Gen Abdel-Fattah Burhan later claimed they cap- tured the refinery, owned by Sudans government and the state-run China National Petroleum Corp. The facility represents a long-sought prize for the military in its civil war with the rebel Rapid Support Force. AP

256. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153355.png
   Extracted Text: Republic Day parade taps into heritage, diversity, military might President Droupadi Murmu leads the celebrations, with Indones celebrating 150 years of tribal activi jan President Prabowo Subianto as special guest tableaux Birsa Munda and 75 years of the enactment of Constitution were the key highlights Samridhi Tewari Satvika Mahajan NEW DELHI ndia showcased its Te might and cultural diversity with a parade keeping special focus on the 75 years of the enactment of the Constitu- tion and Jan Bhagidari pe- oples participation, at the Republic Day celebration here on a cold winter morning that continued in- toabright sunny afternoon  on Sunday. President Droupadi Murmu arrives for the Republic Day parade with Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto on President Droupadi _Kartavya Path in New Delhi on Sunday an aerial view of the marching contingents and Army tanks. ANI  PIBPTI Murmu led the celebra- tions, with Indonesian Pre- 10.30 a.m., with Prime Mi-_nior-most Regiment of the pon system. The Indone- BR. Ambedkar, were the sident Prabowo Subianto nister Narendra Modi visit- Army. While the invitees sian Armygracedthe event _ key highlights. as the special guest. ing the National War Me- stood still, the National  witha music band. The theme for this year morial to pay tributes to Flag was unfurled, fol- Tableaux celebrating was Swarnim Bharat Vi- _ the fallen heroes. lowed by the playing of the  150 years of tribal activist PAGE 10 rasat aur Vikas Golden The President and her National Anthem with a  Birsa Munda and 75 years India heritage and deve- Indonesian counterpart thunderous 2I-gun salute of the Constitution spot-  PAGE 12 lopment. were escorted by the Presi- using 105-mm light field _ lighting the Father of the The parade began at dents Bodyguard, the se- guns, an indigenous wea- Indian Constitution, Dr. _ PAGES

257. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153407.png
   Extracted Text: Blast in Guwahati ULFA says its just a warning The Hindu Bureau GUWAHATI People across eight north- eastern States defied a boy- cott call by some extremist groups, including the Unit- ed Liberation Front of Asom Independent, to celebrate the countrys 76th Republic Day on Sunday. An aberration in the fes- tivallike atmosphere was a bomb blast the ULFA claimed to have detonated on a truck parking lot in the Beharbari area on the outskirts of Guwahati in the morning. Another bag, suspected to contain an improvised explosive device, was foundat the Inter-State Bus Terminus nearby. The police downplayed the outlawed outfits claim. It was a loud sound, not an explosion. We have launched an operation to catch the miscreants in- Police seize bag with IED, say they have unched a search for the reants behind the incident volved, Guwahatis Com- missioner of Police, Partha Sarathi Mahanta, said. Earlier, the Paresh Ba- ruah-led ULFA claimed it carried out blasts in Guwa- hati and other parts of As- sam not to harm anyone but send a message to the people to not participate in occupational Indias Inde- pendence Day and Repu- blic Day programmes in the future. In an email, a spokes- person of the group said the blast was also to re- mind New Delhi of what it was capable of doing on a larger scale. CONTINUED ON  PAGE 10

258. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153429.png
   Extracted Text: Trump moots clean-out of Gaza, lifts curbs on bomb Associated Press ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE US. President Donald Trump said he would like to see Jordan, Egypt and other Arab nations i crease the number of Pal- estinian refugees they are accepting from the Gaza Strip, potentially moving out enough of the popula- tion to just clean out the war-torn area to create a virtual clean slate. During a 20-minute question-and-answer se sion on Saturday with presspersons aboard Air Force One, Mr. Trump also said he has ended his pre- decessors hold on sending 2,000-pound bombs to Is- A Palestinian who spent 19 years in israeli jail, greeting his family in West Bank. ArP rael. That lifts a pressure point meant to reduce civi- lian casualties during Is- raels war with Hamas in Gaza, which is now halted by a tenuous ceasefire. We released them to- day, Mr. Trump said of the bombs. They have been waiting for them for a long time  PAGE 10  PAGE 14

259. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153523.png
   Extracted Text: Men from Rameswaram have been arrested on charges of poaching in the sea, say L. Srikrishna RAMANATHAPURAM na fresh incident, the I Sri Lankan Navy per- sonnel arrested 34 fishermen from Rameswa- ram and impounded three trawlers on charges of poaching on Saturday night. According to the Fisher- ies Department officials, they had issued 439 to- kens on Saturday, and the fishermen were expected to reach the shores in the early hours of Sunday. Preliminary inquiries indicated that when they were fishing between Dha- nushkodi and Mannar, the Sri Lankan Navy, under surveillance, secured the fishermen in the north of Mannar. Three of the arrested fishermen were identified as Regan, 43, Christoper, 33, and Innasi Jenson, 42. According to a state- ment from the Sri Lanka Navy, they arrested the fishermen to curb illegal fishing practices of foreign boats considering the live- The fishermen from Rameswaram who were arrested on Saturday night. SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT lihood of their local fishermen. The Northern Naval Command and Coast Guard had deployed their fast attack craft to drive away the Indian fishing boats poaching in the sea area north of Talaiman- nar. The arrested fisher- men and their boats were handed over to the Assis- tant Director of Fisheries, Killinochi, for further legal proceedings, the release said. Meanwhile, fishermen leaders in Rameswaram condemned the arrest and seizure of the property un- der what they termed as false charges. They urged the Union government to intervene in the matter and take up the issue with the Sri Lan- kan government and bring back the fishermen safely with the trawlers. A meeting is likely to be convened by the fisher- men associations in the coastal district, the soure- es added.

260. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153557.png
   Extracted Text: The parade features key missile systems, including BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles, upgraded Pinaka Multi-Rocket Launch System, BM-21 Grad MRLS, and the Pralay quasi-ballistic missile system the new Battlefield Surveillance System, Sanjay, was showcased for the first time Dinakar Peri NEW DELHI he missile systems T showeased on Kar tavya Path during the Republic Day parade on Sunday capture the evolving long-range tacti- cal strike options for the Indian military, especially the Army, the need for which is one of the key les- sons from the war in Ukraine. BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles, upgraded nounced the successful ed using high-explosive completion of flight tests of _pre-fragmented rockets in guided Pinaka rockets of 75 the Pinaka system, which km range, paving the way will increase the range by for its induction by dou- 15-20, and an area denial bling the original range of munition ADM system, 37 km. Work is on to en- which can be anti-tank and hance the range to 300 anti-personnel. Contracts, km, for procurement of both Last September, the Ar- are expected to be signed mys Director-General of  soon, Lt. Gen. Kumar had Artillery, Lt. Gen. Adosh said. Kumar, said that the Pina- The Grad proved its ka system was being wide- worth during the 1999 Kar- ly exploited and its ability gil War when its ability to was second to none. We deliver a salvo of 40 rock- are looking at extending ets in just 20 seconds Pinaka Multi-Rocket the range of the Pinaka played akey role in neutra- Launch System MRLS rockets anda lot of work is __lising fortified enemy posi with a range of 75 km, The Pralay quasi-ballistic missile system being displayed during the 76th Republic Day going on. The DRDO is con- _ tions on high-altitude ridg- BM-21 Grad, which is a 122 parade on Kartavya Path in New Delhi on Sunday. Sk KUMAR PUSHPAKAR fident of achieving it. es. Initially mounted on mm MRLS, and Pralay qua- In addition to Pinaka, the Ural-3750 truck plat- si-ballistic missile system ics Ltd. at a cost of 2,402 four Pinaka regiments in corded Acceptance of Ne- the Army has five Grad form, the BM-21 under- were among those show- crore, and the systems will serviceandsixmoreareon _cessity for a few hundred rocket regiments and three went a significant upgrade, cased. be inducted in all opera- order. ofthe missiles forthe Army  Smerch regiments with a transitioning to the indige- The Defence Research tional brigades, divisions and the Air Force. In range of 90 km. Another _nously developed Ashok and Development Organi- and corps of the Army in Twinaunched Pralay __ threat scenario, Pralay is _ missile, Nirbhay sub-sonic Leyland super stallion plat- sation DRDO showcased three phases between The Pralay with a twin capable of destruction of cruise missile, the longest form. This upgrade en- a model of the indigenous _ March and October. launcher system show- war waging potential of ad- range option, is in an ad- hanced mobility, increased Advanced Towed Artillery As one of the most ad- cased at the parade is a versary even before the vanced stage of develop- payload capacity, and Gun System ATAGS on its vanced rocket systems glo- quasi-ballistic missile and commencement of contact ment trials and can be ex- _ streamlined maintenance, tableau. bally, the fully automated Indias first ballistic missile battle owing to its flexible pected to be showcased in the commentary noted. Inaddition to Pralay, the 214 mm Pinaka MRLS bat- designated for convention- range and lethality, the __ the next few years. The BrahMos detach- Armys new Battlefield Sur- tery can deliver a salvo of al role. Development trials booklet stated. ment on Kartavya Path, led veillance System, Sanjay, 72 rockets on the target up _of Pralay are over and the The upgraded Pinaka is Specialised ammunition by Captain Suraj Singh, was at the parade for the to75km in44seconds, the development is now com- going tobe the mainstay of  Another aspect adding to was from the 344 Missile first time. Sanjay has been commentary booklet dis- plete, as reported by The the Armys longrange the lethality of Pinaka is Regiment, the youngest jointly developed by the tributed at the parade on Hindu earlier. The Defence rocket artillery. Last No- specialised ammunition. unit within the BrahMos Army and Bharat Electron- Sunday said. The Army has Acquisition Council has ac-_ vember, the DRDO an- Trials have been complet- _ fraternity.

261. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153622.png
   Extracted Text: SEOUL North Korea tests sea-to-surface North Korea has test-fired sea-to-surface strategic guided cruise missiles, state news agency KCNA reported Sunday, adding that the weapons precisely ht their targets. The missiles ht their marks after travelling along the 1,500-km elliptical and figure-eight orbits. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un oversaw Saturdays test. AFP

262. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153631.png
   Extracted Text: Israel kills 22 in Lebanon ahead of deadline for troop pull-out Agence France-Presse BURJ AL MULUK Israeli Army fire Killed 22 people in south Lebanon on Sunday including a sol- dier, health officials said, as residents tried to return home on the day Israel was meant to withdraw under a truce deal. The withdrawal dea- dline is part of a ceasefire agreement reached two months ago that ended Is- raels war with Iran-backed Hezbollah, which had left the Lebanese militant group weakened. Terms of deal The deal that took effect on November 27 said the Le- banese Army was to de- ploy alongside UN peace- keepers in the south as the Israeli Army withdrew ov- The withdrawal deadline is partof a truce reached two months ago that ended Israels war with Hezbollah, REUTERS er a 60-day period that ends on Sunday. The parties have traded blame for the delay in im- plementing the agree- ment, and on Friday Israel said it would keep troops across the border in south Lebanon beyond the pull- out date. Lebanons Health Minis- try said on Sunday that Is- raeli forces opened fire on citizens who were trying to return to their villages that are still under Israeli occupation. Itsaid 22 residents anda soldier were killed and 124 more wounded.

263. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153646.png
   Extracted Text: Russia says captured east Ukrainian town of Velyka Novosilka Agence France-Presse Moscow Russia on Sunday said its forces had captured the east Ukrainian town of Ve- lyka Novosilka in the em- battled Donetsk region, al- most three years into their offensive, Russia has made steady advances on the battlefield in eastern Ukraine for months. Moscows Defence Mi- nistry said Russian troops led active offensive ac- tions and liberated the settlement of Velyka Novo- silka, which lies in the west of the Donetsk region, The town in the west of the Donetsk region and is close to the southern front line in Ukraine Velyka Novosilka is close to the southern front line in Ukraine  which has re- mained largely static but where fears of a fresh Rus- sian offensive have risen for weeks. Both sides have raced to gain an advantage in the almost three-year as Donald Trump  who has vowed to hold talks to end the conflict  returns to the White House.

264. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153653.png
   Extracted Text: Rebels close in on key Congo city as 13 Officials killed and thousands displaced Associated Press GOMA The United Nations on Sunday told its staff not to go to the airport and to shelter in place. Congo, the United States and UN experts accuse Rwanda of backing M23, which is mainly made up of ethnic Tutsis who broke away from the Congolese Army more than a decade ago. Its one of about 100 armed groups that have been vying for a foothold in the mineralrich region, The international airport in Goma was evacuated and commercial flights temporarily grounded on Sunday as fighting bet- ween Rwanda-backed re- bels and government fore- es raged around eastern Congos key city, leaving at least 13 peacekeepers and foreign soldiers dead and displacing thousands of civilians. People displaced by the fighting with M23 where a long-running con- The M23 rebel group rebels make their way to the centre of Goma on Sunday. AP flict has created one of the has made significant terri- worlds largest humanitar- torial gains along the bor- 2 million and is a regional _ the city, was evacuated by _ian crises. der with Rwanda in recent hub for security and hu- the military and commer- The Congolese Foreign weeks, closinginonGoma, manitarian efforts. cial flights were temporari- Ministry said late Saturday the provincial capital that Gomas_ international _ly grounded due to fight- _ it was severing diplomatic has a population of around airport, whichisthe east of ing, an airport agent said. _ties with Rwanda.

265. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153702.png
   Extracted Text: 27 Nigerian soldiers killed in jihadist suicide attack Army Agence France-Presse KANO At least 27 Nigerian sol- diers were killed in a jiha- dist suicide attack in the northeast, two Army sources said on Sunday. On Friday, troops launched a ground offen- sive on a stronghold of Is- lamic State-affiliated mili- tants in a wasteland straddling Borno and Yobe states. The suicide attack killed 27 soldiers, includ- ing the commander, and left several others seriously injured, a military officer said, making this one of the deadliest suicide at- tacks targeting soldiers in recent years. Tanker blast Meanwhile, 18 persons were killed in a truck acci- dent in south-eastern Nige- ria, a week after a petrol tanker explosion left at least 98 dead. Those killed had been burnt beyond recognition. Phe tanker, which was loaded with premium mo- tor spirit, experienced break failure and the driv- er lost grip of the wheels before crashing into 17 other vehicles, sparking a fire.

266. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 153903.png
   Extracted Text: BSF to hold talks with BGB in Delhi from February 16 to 20 the next round of biannual Director-General level talks between the Border Security Force BSF and Border Guards Bangladesh BGB will be held in Delhi from February 16 to 20, the first time after the regime change in the neighbouring country, a government official said. The talks that were previously slated to be held in October 2024 were postponed due to the ongoing political situation in Bangladesh. The talks were previously held in Dhaka. Fencing of border areas, trans-border crimes, and coordinated patrolling will be on the agenda, the official said.

267. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 154036.png
   Extracted Text: MDL-TKMS bid for P-75I submarine tender clears technical evaluation Dinakar Peri NEW DELHI The multi-billion dollar deal for six advanced con- ventional submarines un- der project-751 has crossed a major milestone with the bid by Mazagon Dock Ship- builders Limited MDL, Mumbai, and Germanys TKMS Thyssenkrupp Ma- rine Systems having cleared the technical eval- uation conducted by the Defence Ministry. The bid by Larsen  Toubro along with Navantia of Spain has not cleared the evaluation. The benchmarked price of 43,000 crore for the deal was set a decade ago, and given the technologi- cal upgrades since and fac- toring in the inflation and currency fluctuations, the final cost is expected to see a major upward revision, MDL confirms that the The compliance checks of the two bids received were completed in June last year as part of the field evaluation trials. FILE PHOTO commercial bid submitted by MDL has been opened by the Ministry of Defence MoD for further process- ing the MDL said on Thursday as per require- ments of the market regu- lator Securities and Ex- change Board of India. The compliance checks of the two bids received were completed in June last year as part of the Field Evaluation Trials FET and the reports were since were under scrutiny in the Ministry. The bids were opened last week and the bid by MDL-TKMS was de- clared technically com- plaint, according to official sources. The commercial negotiations will now com- mence based on the price quoted in the bid submit- ted, a source stated. The Request For Propo- sal RFP issued by the Na- vy for the programme de- tailing the specifications states that the first subma- rine should have indige- nous content IC of 45 which should up to 60 for the sixth and last sub- marine. The key determi- nant, however, to qualify for P51 is the Air Indepen- dent Propulsion AIP mo- dule, which enhances the endurance and stealth of a submarine. The AIP mo- dule became the real deter- minant for qualifying the technical criteria. The design offered by TKMS, in partnership with MDL, is based on its highly successful Class 214 subma- rine and Class 212CD and has an operationally pro- ven AIP module. Navantia has offered a submarine based on its new 80 class of submarines, the first of which was launched in 2021 and commissioned in- to the Spanish Navy as S-81 isaac Peral in 2023.

268. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 154042.png
   Extracted Text: Indian Navy finishes survey of Mauritius The Hindu Bureau NEW DELHI The Indian Navys INS Sar- vekshak completed the fi- nal phase of the hydro- graphic survey of Mauritius covering an ex- tensive area of over 25,000 square nautical miles. The fair sheet of the survey, along with newly prepared nautical charts, were for- mally handed over to Presi- dent Dharambeer Gokhool on Thursday. The creation of a new nautical chart will enable Mauritius to develop its maritime infrastructure, resource management and coastal development plan- ning. It reflects the endur- ing partnership between India and Mauritius in fos- tering maritime develop- ment and regional cooper- ation, the Navy said.

269. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 154127.png
   Extracted Text: Bangladesh frees 178 paramilitar troops over deadly 2009 mutin aa Bangladesh released 178 former paramilitary troops on Thursday, nearly 16 years after their detention for a violent mutiny in 2009 that resulted in 74 deaths, including of Army officers, destabilising the government of then-premier Sheikh Hasina. The troops had been acquitted of murder but faced charges related to explosives. are

270. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 154135.png
   Extracted Text: Hundreds leave West Bank camp during Israeli raid, says official Hundreds of residents in the Jenin refugee camp have begun evacuating their homes on Thursday amid a large-scale Israeli military operation. Israeli forces reportedly ordered evacuations using loudspeakers, though the Army claimed it was unaware of any such orders. The operation has resulted in many casualties. are

271. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 154222.png
   Extracted Text: India, Indonesia set to discuss Myanmar conflict during talks Kallol Bhattacherjee NEW DELHI The raging conflict in Myanmar will feature pro- minently in discussions between visiting Indone- sian President Prabowo Subianto and Prime Minis- ter Narendra Modi during the weekend, sources said. Mr. Subianto, who will be the chief guest at the Repu- blic Day celebrations, be- gan his official meetings by calling on External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and meeting industry bigwigs on Friday. The inclusion of the pre- vailing scenario in Myan- mar in the official agenda is significant as both India and Indonesia have been trying to stitch up a dia- logue process among va- rious domestic stakehol- The meeting of Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto right with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar in New Delhi on Friday. P71 ders in the conflict-torn southeast Asian country. Sources mentioned that the two sides will discuss several regional issues in- cluding the tension around the South China Sea dur- ing the official talks that will be held in Hyderabad House on Saturday. India recently hosted a number of ethnic armed organisations from Myan- mar as well as members of the exiled National Unity Government. India hosted them at the Indian Council of World Af- fairs, soon after Indonesia also hosted such groups. The chain of engage- ments indicated that both the countries are trying to establish dialogue between the military junta in Nay Pyi Taw and the ethnic armed organisations that have captured _ large amounts of territory of Myanmar, including vast tracts of land near its bor- ders with Indias north- eastern States. The situation in Myan- mar has escalated over the last year, with the military junta losing control over areas in Chin state, Rak- hine, and the Sagaing re- gion. Maungdaw near the Indo-Bangladesh frontier was the latest town to fall to the Arakan Army in De- cember 2024.  PAGE 10

272. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 154322.png
   Extracted Text: Pralay, Indias first quasi-ballistic missile, to be showcased at Republic Day parade Dinakar Peri NEW DELHI The Defence Research and Development Organisation DRDO is set to showcase Pralay, an indigenous short-range quasi-ballistic missile, at the Republic Day parade in New Delhi on Sunday. Meant for the Army and the Air Force, Pralay is the first ballistic missile in In- dias arsenal for conven- tional strikes. The Armys Battle Surveillance System Sanjay will also be part of the parade. With a range of 400 kilo- metres, Pralay adds to the BrahMos and Parahar mis- siles already in the invento- ry, giving the Indian mi tary an option for stand-off  . The Pralay Weapon System on display during the full dress Fae  rehearsal for the Republic Day parade in New Delhi on Thursday. eT! missile strikes across the border. It is meant for de- ployment along both the Line of Control Loc and the Line of Actual Control LAC. The development trials of Pralay are over and it is now complete, officials said, noting that the De- fence Ministry had already accorded the Acceptance of Necessity for its induc- tion. The system features a twin launcher configura- tion mounted on an Ashok Leyland 12x12 high-mobili ty vehicle as seen during the ongoing rehearsals for the Republic Day parade. In 2023, the Defence Ac- quisition Council DAC ap- proved procurement of the Pralay tactical ballistic mis- siles with a range of 400 kmand Nirbhay long-range subsonic land attack cruise missiles with a range of 1,000 km, both of which will give a long-range con- ventional strike option for the Indian military. Put to- gether, a few hundred mis- siles were approved for procurement by the DAC. A new derivative of Nirbhay, which has been under development for ov- er a decade now, has been flight-tested recently and trials are under way.

273. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 154510.png
   Extracted Text: Lebanon troop pullout will continue beyond 60-day deadline GETTY IMAGES Israel announced on Friday that the withdrawal ofits forces from southern Lebanon would continue beyond the 60-day period stipulated in a November ceasefire agreement with Hezbollah. The comment comes despite earlier calls from UN peacekeepers for accelerated implementation of the deal. ase

274. Image: Screenshot 2025-02-10 154528.png
   Extracted Text: Taliban reject court move to arrest its top officials Associated Press KABUL, The Taliban on Friday rejected a court move to arrest two of their top officials for persecut- ing women, accusing the court of baseless accusations and misbehaviour. The International Criminal Courts chief prosecutor Karim Khan announced on Thursday he had requested arrest war- rants for two top Taliban offi- cials, including the leader Hi- batullah Akhundzada. Since they took back control of the country in 2021, the Tali ban have barred women from jobs, most public spaces and education beyond sixth grade. A Foreign Ministry state- ment condemned the ICC request.

275. Image: a519bcdd-6f07-4194-8c58-48a5a258167c.jpg
   Extracted Text: Air India set for major global expansion, says CEO Wilson PRESS TRUST OF INDIA AIR INDIA HAS covered a lot of ground since privatisation and its global coverage will further increase intheyears ahead, the ai lines chief Campbell Wilson said on Wednesday. He also said the interior refit of the single-aisle fleet, serving domestic and short-haul interna- tional destinations, is underway, and will be completed by mid- 2025. Loss-making Air India was acquired by the Tata Group from the government in January 2022, and is undergoing an ambitious five-yeartransformation plan. In 2024, Air India completed the merger of Vistara with itself as well as integration of Air India Express and AIX Connect was also done. InhisNew Yearmessage,Wilson saidthese mergers and newaircraft deliveries have taken Air India Groupsfleetto 300aircraft,allow- ing ittoexpandto over 100 domes- ticand international destinations. Air Indias global coverage will further increase in the years ahead, not least because of therecent addi tionof 100 aircraftto our orderbook, augmenting the earlier commi ment for470 madein 2023hesaid. The Air India CEO and MD also said these new aircraft will be sup- ported by a brand-new 12-bay maintenance facility and mainte- nance training school in Bengaluru Karnataka, a new 34-aircraft flight school in Amravati Maha- rashtra and the training academy in Gurugram Haryana. India is one of the worlds fastest growing civil aviation mar- kets and effortsare being made to make the country global aviation hub with Indian carriers providing FINANCIAL EXPRESS hu Al first airline to roll out Wi-Fion domestic flee ARNO IA, PRIVATE CARRIER AIR India on Wednesdayrolledout Wi-Fi inter- net connectivity services on board domesticandinternational flights on its widebody Airbus A350 and Boeing 787-9 fleet aswell asonselect Airbus A321neo aircraft. This makes Air India  gy Fa thefirst airline to offersuch services on flights within India, theairline said. Accessibleon Wi-Fi-enabled devices such as laptops, tablets, and smartphones with iOS or Android operating systems, the in-flight Wi-Fi will also allow guests to connect multiple devices simultaneously direct flights to international des- tinations. Air India has covered a lot of ground in the period since privati- sation we acknowledge theres much more to be done. 2 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress.comc76541551 when above 10,000 feet, it said. The deployment of Wi-Fi on domestic routes follows an ongoing pilot programme on international services operated bythe Airbus A350, select Ai bus A321 neo and Boe- ing B787-9 aircraft serving international destinations including New York, London, Paris and Singapore.As with thedomes- tic of fer, Wi-Fi is complimen- tary foran introductory period, Air India said. Air India said it will pro- gressively roll out the service onother aircraft inits fleet over time. PTI All 30,000 Air Indians are fully committed to improving the qual- ity and consistency of our services, in all areas, so that Air India becomes theworld-class airline we allwantitto be,he said.

276. Image: ab4818c5-1a02-4da9-a200-821a57487e13.jpg
   Extracted Text: FE BUREAU New Delhi, January 3 INDIAS POVERTY FELL sharply from close to 22 in 2011-12 to well under 59 in 2023-24, with almost minimal incidence of extreme poverty anda shrinking of urban-rural gap,researchers at the State Bank of India SBI have said. Citing the results of the House- hold Consumption Expenditure Survey HCES 2023-24 released last week, SBI group chief eco- nomic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh said that based on fractile distribution, rural povertyplunged from 25.7 in 2011-12 to 7.2 in 2022-23 to 4,86 in 2023-24, Urban poverty declined from 4.6 in 2022-23 to 4.09 in 2023-24. FINANCIAL EXPRESS 52 Extreme penury minimal, researchers cite rising rural mobility, DBT Poverty below 5, urban-rural gap reducing SBI Research SHARP DECLINE IN RURAL NUMBERS Inflation adjusted poverty line 2  Rural Urban Poverty ratio using HCES  Rural Urban ll india  iS  2011-12 ot iT 1d OO 00 a ies a 2011-12 2022-23 2023-24 At an aggregate level, we 37.2. India is already below 5. The new poverty line for rural areas at believe poverty rates in India could nowbe intherangeof 4-4.5with almost minimal existence of extreme poverty, noted Ghosh. In 2011-12, the poverty rate was 21.99 and in 2004-05, it was 04 January 2025 These observations corroborate a statement made by Niti Aayog CEO BVR Subrahmanyam in Feb- ruary this year, following the release of HCES 2022-23 results, that population of the poor in https epaper. financialexpress. comc76553379 monetary threshold forpoverty set by the Tendulkar committee 2009 was extrapolated by the think tank for making that assess- ment. SBI Reserach has drawn, based on the HCES 2023-24, the monthly per capita consumption expenditure MPCE of 81,632 and for urban areas at 1,944. 2011- 12, the respective figures were 816 and 1,000. However, the negative growth rates in real wages for rural occu- pations over the recent years appeartobeat variance with these estimates. According to the HCES 2023- 24,the lowest fractile class in rural areas at 0-50 had MPCE of 81,677 in 2023-24, up 22 from 21,373 in 2022-23. In urban areas, the corresponding MPCE was 2,376 in 2023-24, up 18.7 from 2,001 in 2022-23. In 2023-24, the consumption inequality, both in rural and urban areas, declined from 2022-23. The Gini coeffi cient has declined to 0.24 in 2023- 24 from 0.27 in 2022-23 forrural areas and to 0.28 from 0.31 for urban areas. Continued on Page 10

277. Image: ad951e74-55cf-4026-9905-59f26c390b87.jpg
   Extracted Text: Googles most serious rival is a start-up THE Al BOOM of the past twoyyears has largely been a two-horse race. Alphabets Google and Microsoft.funded OpenAl have duked it out for customers, while Amazon.com and Meta Platforms have nibbled at the margins for market share. Butat least one new company has emerged asan outsider with achance of chal- lenging their oligopoly. Morethan 15 million people,according toa spokeswoman, are regularly using Perplexity AI,ananswer engine that competes with Googles search and adver- tisingbusiness. Thewebsite and app shot upin valueover the courseof2024, from 1 billion at the start of theyearto 9 billion in December when it closed a 500- million fundinground.Itsfounder, Aravind Srinivas, is aconsummate negotiator who hasplugged himself deeply into SiliconValleysnetworkwhilediffusing ten- sionwith competitors and critics. Going up against Googlehas alwayslooked likea suicidemission. Around 90 of online searches globally are conducted on its site. Microsofts Bing, afterincor- porating ChatGPT two years ago, hasbarelymadea dent in Googles market share, remaining at just 4. Yahoos usage has dwindled. A promising Al tart-up called Neeva,run bya former Google ad executive, closed down in 2023 after four years of tryingtocompetewith Google. But Perplexity has raised farmoremoneythan Neeva 913 million compared with 77 million, accordingto Pitchbook andits clean comprehensive answers are drawing users frustrated with Googlesad-clogged results, accordin gto postings about the app on Twitter, Reddit, and other social media forums,as well asanec- dotes Ive heard from users. For now, its making money from 20-a-month subscriptions, generating 30 million in annual recurring revenue within a year. Srinivas is also shiftinginto Googles core business advertising. Hes betting that many of those informational querieswill lead to purchase decisions, suchas asking about thebenefits of fish oil orthe best TVs to install athome. Almost 80 of Google searchesarenotmonetisablehetoldme.Even ifmost of Googles searches dont directly generate ad revenue, PARMY they restill critical forkeepin gitsposition asthego-tosearch OLSON engine. Peoplewill comeback for the commercial querieson products nd services  and see ads  if they already trust Bloomberg Google enough for queries like weather, facts, and general knowledge. Hes betting the same willhappento Perplexity. Srinivas diplomatic approach extends beyond rhetoric. Having worked at both OpenAland Google, hes built up an impressive roster of Silicon Valley relation- ships. Elon Muskvvisited his company in the early days and expressed admiration for Srinivas hiring restraint Perplexity has 147 employees today, according toa spokeswoman. He picked up investors including Amazon.com founder Jeff Bezos, leadingAlscientist Yann LeCun,and legendary Google engineering chiefeff Dean. FormerGit Hub chief executive officer and Al investor Nat Friedman provided Per- plexity with 380,000in Microsoft Azure cloudcreditsthrough his Al fund, prov- ing critical when access to Al chips was scarce. Operating an Alstart-upin 2024 usuallyendedwith being swallowed bya tech giant.In the past year, three of the most promising new Al firms in Silicon Valley were absorbed by larger companies Inflection AIsteamjoined Microsoft, Adepts, leaders went to Amazon, and Character Als co-founders joined Google. But Srinivas stands a better chancethan most of remaining independent, and his biggest advantage might be his grasp of Silicon Valleys political economy. As a former intern who worked with the creators of the transformer architecture at Google Brain, he understands both thetechnical foundations of modern Aland the industrys complex web of relationships. His ability to maintain cordial ties with rivalswhiledefusing tensionswith publisherssuggestshe knows howto navigate the long-term challenge of rivalling a tech giant. Googles search business wont crumbleovernight, but in Srinivas,theindustryfinally hasa credibleoutsider who could reshape how we find information online. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Ved, 08 January 2025 eS suprise https epaper.financialexpress. cc

278. Image: aec2ad60-2b99-437c-8160-a05ce018f763.jpg
   Extracted Text: NARAYANAN V Chennai, January 5 THE CHETAK ELECTRIC scooterhas been a big winner. Its maker Bajaj Autonotched upan enviable share of 25 in the electric two-wheeler 2W space in Decemberleaving Ola Electricwith a share of just 19 and Ather with 14. With TVS Motors share at 23, the ICE internal com- bustion engine players are making the switch to EVs remarkably well. The market, however, shrank with total E2W sales falling sharply to 72,090 units in December from 1.39 lakh units in October and 1.19 lakh units in November. Its been a rough ridefor Ola Elec- tric which, even in April 2024 enjoyed a 5 2 share of the market, at the time Bajajs share was just 11. Bajajs success can be credited toa strategic pivot to the mass mar- ket and the addition of dealers to its network. Ola was the first to intro- duce a range of scootersbelow the 1 lakh mark, a segment into which Bajaj and TVS had not ventured. The company, which revived the iconic Chetak brand forelectric scooters in 2020, had been focused on the pre- mium segment pricingitsvehicles at more than 1.2 lakh. In June 2024, however, Bajaj shifted gears launch- ing the Chetak 2901, priced at 96,000 to target the sub-1 lakh mass market. Its monthly sales vol- umes, which were clocking just over 7,500units in April nearly tripled to 18,035 units by December. In fact, thee-scooter market, ini- tially dominated by the premium segment, tilted toward mass-market products inthe latterhalf of theyear. Affordable modelsthat offerreduced range, lower top speed, slower accel- eration, and basic consoles and now account fora majorshare of sales for the top three. Industry estimates suggest Bajaj now commands 36 of the sub-1 lakh market, a seg- ment that was once Olas domain. It is not as though Bajaj Auto has alto- getherabandoned thepremium seg- ment. Lastweek,two newversions of the Chetak electric scooter3501 and 3502under the latest 35 series, were introduced. The vehicles were priced above 1.2 lakh and complement existingmodels suchas FINANCIAL EXPRESS LAUNCH OF MASS MARKET SCOOTERS PAYS OFF Bajaj Autos EV charge IN JUNE 2024, BAJAJ SHIFTED GEARS LAUNCHING THE CHETAK 2901, PRICED AT 296,000 TO TARGET THE SUB-1 LAKH MASS MARKET IN FIRST POSITION 100 80 FY 18 Sd EL ee EU pi wu ie Fa a 2 Ey 20 rs id Ed Py o Jan Feb Mar Apr Market share  Ola Electric Bajaj Auto mTVS Motor May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Others Source Vahan the 3201,3202,2903,and the 3201 Special Edition. To sell its widerrange of products, Bajaj has been expand- ing its sales network. Chetak scoot- ers are now sold through 3,000 touch points, compared to TVS Motors 750 touch points. Bajaj plans to expand this network to 4,000 by January 2025. Moreover, the company is also tapping into e- commerce channels to boost sales. Mon, 06 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress. comc76563350 For instance, Flipkarthas been offer- ingdiscounts of up to 7,000 on the Chetak 3202, along with flexible EMI options. Bajaj has reportedly sold over 10,000 Chetak scooters via Amazon and Flipkart since 2023. Meanwhile, Bajaj is leveraging its captive financing arm Bajaj Auto Credit. Financing has become a cru- cial driver of the two-wheeler mar- ket, especially for electric scooters with higher price points. Hemal NThakkar,Senior Practice Leader, Crisil, observes that about 50 of 2-wheelers are financed today compared with 30-35 pre- Covid. Traditional OEMs have a clear advantage due to their long- standing relationships with financ- ing companies, perceived product quality, and after-sales value, he adds. Over 70 of Bajajs stores are integrated with its financing arm and credit facilities will be made available to all outlets by end-Janu- ary. About 34 of its electric scoot- ers and 50 ofits ICE vehicles are financed through this channel. Bhavish Aggarwals Ola Electric, meanwhile, has been struggling to regain share plagued bya surge in customer complaints about poor after-sales service. Late September last year the company switched toa multi-brand dealer network that would complement its direct-to- consumer D2 sales model invest- ments to be made the partners would be limited. Essentially, the retailers would not bear the cost of the inventory, which typically accounts for 25-30 of the total cost of a traditional dealership. The tabforthemarketing and promotion costs would be picked up by Ola. The company has added 3,200 new stores, taking its total network to 4,000 showrooms and service cen- ters nationwide. Ola got offtoa fairly good start in 2024 strong,selling1.2 lakh units in the first quarter. There- after, sales volume started falling and volumes in Q2 sales were down to 1.08 lakh units and in the Sep- tember quarter to 94,171 units. By the last quarter of the year, volumes had dropped off tosub-85,000 units. Experts say the company needs to address the issue of after-sales service before it can see a meaning- ful pick-up in volumes. Jeffery Jacob, Partner and Head Automotive at KPMGin India, points out that while the D2C model helps new players scale up quickly, it is the physical store network that ensures sus- tained sales and helps address ser- vice concerns. Over 2024, Ola sold 4.07 lakh units while TVS and Bajaj together soldalittle moreat 4.1 lakh units. But it promises to be a whole new space thisyearwith alot more competition. Hondas tipped to make its entry while Hero MotoCorp has just launched variants of its Vida E2Ws V2 Lite 96,000, V2 Plus 81,15 lakh, and V2 Pro 21.35 lakhtar- getting both the sub-81 lakh and pre- mium segments. Others too are readyingto make launchessoit wont be easy for Bajaj tohold on toitsshare. But itmight yet stay the leader.

279. Image: b6e82bc3-1ec8-4202-8c79-e45bc70a860c.jpg
   Extracted Text: GOOGLE WILLOW Separating hype from reality WHEN GOOGLE UNVEILED its quantum computing chip, Willow, the announcement created a lot of excitement and curiosity in thetech communityaround the world. The breakthrough marksa significant developmentin quantum computing -a field of computer science that promises to disrupt everything from healthcare to finance to scientific research. Because in under five minutes, Willow can solve tasks that would take even the worlds most advanced supercomputers thousands, millions, oreven septillions of years to crack. While companies like IBM and Microsoft are also advancing qui new technologies, Willows advancements in errorcorrection and computational speed gives Google acompetitive edge. However, experts caution that game- changing technologies like these dont come without hurdles and Willows current applications remain largely experimental. Also, there are issues around infrastructure readiness and cost barriers in its path to wideradoption. What makes Willow special? What will be itsimplications across the industries? What are the challenges ithas to overcome? Sudhir Chowdhary spoke to some industry antum experts to put things into perspective. Willow is more of a tech demonstrator ANIL PRABHAKAR PROFESSOR, DEPT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, IIT MADRAS COMPANIES LIKE GOOGLE invest heavily, build large teams, and provide forlongterm research, While Willowrepresents a significant leap forward inthe field of quantum computing, dontthink the chip will enable advanced Al systems anytime soon.The technology demon- stratoron Willow is that of fault tolerance.t remains to be seen if this will hold true for 1000 times largersystems, Thechallenges of low temperature andscalabilityexist. Most industry problems in domains of case.Cybersecurityis oneofthe problems of strategicinterest,and theharvest-now-decrypt-later problemis something that nations finan ceand logistics must lookat today and protect comewith thousands themselves. of variables. Thisis Itcould easilybea decade alsotrueif we attempt beforewehavea large scale problems in general purposequantum chemistry and biology computer. The roadmap of of more thana few many companies now says molecules or proteins. hybrid quantum-classical Consequently, we sowe can leverage will need millions smallerquantum of noisy qubits beforewecan see aviable use processing units todospecific tasks. An inspiration for Indias Quantum Mission ASHOK CHANDAK PRESIDENT, INDIAELECTRONICS  SEMICONDUCTOR ASSOCIATION THE SUCCESS OF Google isa shotin the arm for Indias Quantum Computing Missionas this, demonstrates the feasibility and great potentialof quantum computingandwill acta motivation to strengthen the ecosystem.India should speed up FINANCIAL EXPRESS Thu, heey ourown development, collaborate and get knowledge sharing from Google, focuson applicationsand algorithmsdevelopment. Quantum computing has the potential to revolutionise multiple fields bysolving problemsthat are intractable forclassical computers. The susceptibility of qubitsto environmental disturbanceshasbeena persistent barrier to realising practical quantumsystems. Another challengelies inscalingup the system. Tosolve meaningful problems, weneed millionsof stablequbits Right now, themost advanced quantum computers only have dozens toa fewhundred, and theyre hardto control. Also, there is a need for development of advanced semiconductor mate- rials, tools, and processesthat are essential for quantum hardware. In3-5 years, we can see pilot projects of Willow inlogistics, finance, Aland drug discovery space. Large-scale disruption across multiple sectors, including cybersecurityand climate science, can happenonly aftera decade from now. 2 January 2025 ps epaper . financialexpress.comc76542014 Quantum will providea real kick to AI AJAI CHOWDHRY CHAIRMAN, THE MISSION GOVERNING BOARD, NATIONAL QUANTUM MISSION OF INDIA. GOOGLES WILLOWISa demonstration of what quantum can do. It can transform quantum computing from technical curiosity to a practical tool. Though thereisno practical use at present, Willow opensthedoortoa multitude of A driven possi- bilities like speedingupmachine learning, transforming optimisation problems, improved simulations, enhanced pattern recognition. The technology behind Willow is sophisticated. The chip features 105 qubits  about double the number on Googles previous Sycamore chip.Ithas made strides in error correction,and scaling qubits while maintaining high computational fidelity. The challenge till now for superconducting quantum systems has been noise. Google has demonstrated that usingan error correcting algorithm, called surface code, they could reduce the error on theirsystem. The more qubits they use in Willow, the more they reduce errors, and the more quantum the system becomes. This historic accomplishmentisknown in the field as below threshold -being ableto drive errors down while scaling up the numberof qubits. Each step like this will help us to create practical scalable quantum computers. Anyway, this will be good for further research as real powerful quantum computers are still far away in the horizon. Closerhome, the National Quantum Mission has plans to make 1000 qubit system inthe next eight years for which funding hasstarted to flow toresearchers working with the Computing THubat IISc, Bangalore. Large quantum computers areality in the near future JASPREET BINDRA CO-FOUNDER  CEO, AIBEYOND. THE WILLOW COMPUTING chip marksa significant milestone in quantum computing, advancing scalability, stability, and error correction - key to achieving fault-tolerant quantum systems. Itshigh-fidelity qubits address critical challenges, intensifying the global quantum race involving Google, IBM, Microsoft, and others, while showcasing quantum computings transformative potential. With the ability tosolve problems in minutes that would take classical computers septillions of years, quantum technology promises breakthroughs in climate modeling drug discovery, logistics, and AI advancements, potentially reshaping industries. However, challenges like qubit instability, extreme cooling requirements,and scalable system development remain formidable. In India, the National Mission on Quantum Technologies, supported by global partnerships, _ academicresearch, . andstartups, providesarobust frameworkfor  growth. MAN  MACHINE Al, convergence, and beyond  Firms poised to scale up Al deployments into full production  ALOK OHRIE IN 2024, THE global technology landscape witnessed remarkable breakthroughs acrosscomputersci- ence,dataarchitecturesand AL Ithas created pivotal transformations in sectors such as manufacturing, defence, BFSI, fintech and health- care, setting the stage for more rev- olutionary advancements to follow in the coming year. Al continued its rapid evolution, with significant strides in GenAl, enhancing natural language pro- cessingand content creation Al-dri- ven diagnostics have improved patient outcomes, bolstered fraud detectionin financeandstreamlined processes in data management, improving accuracy andefficiency. Advancements in data storage and processing technologies have enabled more efficient handling of streaming and massive datasets, crucial for lof, Alandmachinelearn- ing applications. The development of smaller, efficient language mod- elshas gained momen- tum as researchers and organisations prioritise accessibility, speed and cost-effectiveness. 2025 is set to be transformative, with AI at the forefront. Enterprises willscale Al deployments, creating reusable foundationstohamessitspotential. Als convergence with Zero Trust security, 6G, digitaltwins, intelligent edge and quantum computing will drive new innovation and discovery. Quantumcomputingcombined with Alwill revolutionise industries like material science, drug discov- ery,diagnosticsand protein synthe- sis,through unparalleled computa- tional capabilities. Meanwhile, intelligent edge solutions will enablefaster,morelocalised Al pro- cessing, supporting applications 2025 like real-time analytics and autonomous systems. Moreover, the synergy of AI and emerging technologies will redefine indus- tries, drivinga future of intelligent, collaborative innovation. Agentic Al will define the next technologyfronticrof generative Al, driven by an evolution towardscom- pound AI systems that can autonomouslyinteract withotherAl systems and collaborate with humans through natural language communication. Enterprises will need torapidly evolve their technol- ogystacks to support the increasing complexity of these agentic archi- tectures, which willdriveinnovation in DataOps, IT operations manage- ment, manufacturing andlogistics. l4 v ae Privacy concerns and regulatory diversity are spurringnations across the world to adopt sovereign AI strategies, fostering localised Al ecosystems tailored to their culture, language, and data secu- rityneeds Countrieslike India are building national Al infrastruc- tures and promoting public-private collabora- tion to rapidly mod- ernise and scale their ecosystems with a focus on national intellectual propertyand differentiated Alvalue. Thefuture of Al lies in human-AI collaboration and partnerships between enterprises and tech inno- vators.As Al arms us with actionable insights from complex data and automates routinetasks,humanswill focus on strategic thinking, creativ- ity,and decision-making. As we step intothe new year,man-machinecol- laboration will define the frontior of transformation, paving theway fora sustainableand inclusive future. The writer is president  managing director, Dell Technologies India

280. Image: b90727cf-b56e-47c0-860c-18999765e31f.jpg
   Extracted Text: More flights to Thailand and Malaysia as visa-free entry spurs Indian traffic SUKALP SHARMA New Delhi, January 3 INTHE AUTUMNof 2023, Thai- land and Malaysia extended visa-freeentrytolndian nation- als in the hope of attracting tourists from the countryat a time when they were travelling overseas like neverbefore. Slow post-pandemic eco- nomic recovery in China had evidently hit tourist inflows to Southeast Asian hotspots, while Indias recovery in terms of international passengertraffic was booming. Emerging desti- nationsin other regions, partic- ularly Central Asia and theCau- casus,also picked up in termsof interest among Indian tourists. A year on, both Southeast Asian nations appear pleased withtheresults,somuchsothat they havedecided to extend the visa-free entry facilityfor indian passport holders further. Avia- tionandtravelindustryinsiders saythe visawaivershavestimu- lated demandfortravelto Thai- land and Malaysia, which air- lines have recognised. Datashowsthat thenumber of Indians travelling to the two countrieshas grownin thewake of these measures, and airlines havejumpedat the opportunity by significantly increasing capacity between India and the two countries by adding flights and destinations.In the Decem- ber quarter of 2024, the total number offlightsin both direc- tionsbetween Indiaandthetwo countries rose 29.2 y-o-y to 14,409, with the deployed seat capacity rising 26,606 to 28.02 lakh, according toan analysisof data from aviation analytics FINANCIAL EXPRESS FLYING HIGH In the December quarter of 2024, the total number of fights in both directions between India and the two countries rose 29.2 y-o-y to 14,409 New flights IndiGos Chennai Penang  Bengaluru-Langkawi flights mWith the clusion of these flights to Penang from Chennai, IndiGo will now operate 28 weekly flights Airindia Expresss flights to Bangkok toMalaysia from Pune, Lucknow, Surat,  Amritsar, from two cities in India its Hyderabad-Phuket service Taree teas teenie Rea eur vat eae eee Sure Reco ea ieee significant international pea Rotence Cr es ae CY g Cee Indias official data for interna- tionalairpassengersisavailable onlyuntilthe June quarterofthe current fiscal, and even that number of new flights. These include IndiGos Chennai- Penang and Bengaluru- Langkawi flights Air India showsa significant increase in traffic over the corresponding periodlast year. In the past year orso,Indian airlines as well as those from Southeast Asia have launched a Sat, 04 January 2025 https epaper. Financialexpress. comc765556 Expresss flights to Bangkok from Pune,Lucknow,Surat,and Amritsar, and its Hyderabad- Phuketservice Air Indias Delhi- Kuala Lumpur and Delhi- Phuket flights.

281. Image: ba894c22-964b-4417-accf-83b14722911f.jpg
   Extracted Text: Why do you feel tired Know how and why chronic fatigue happens FE FEATURES MOST YOUNGSTERS THESE days fre- quently complain of fatigue. Dr Rakesh Gupta, seniorconsultant, internal medi- cine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, says This happens due to multiple interre- lated factors in our modern lifestyle. Irregular sleep patterns, often driven by academic pressure, social media use,and screen time before bed, significantly disrupt their natural circadian rhythm. Poor dietary habits, including excessive consumption of processed foods and irregularmealtiming, failto providesus- tained energy throughout the day. Phys- ical inactivity, largely due to sedentary behaviours like prolonged sitting during classes andscreen-based entertainment, reduces stamina and energy levels. Addi- tionally, psychological stressors such as academic perfor- , mance _ pressure, social expectations, and future career concerns contribute to mental exhau tion, which mani - fests as physical DrRakesh fatigue. Environ- Gupta mental factors like pollution and indoor lifestyles with limited exposure to nat- ural light and fresh air can also impact energy levels. The combination of these factors, along with potential underlying health issues like vitamin D deficiency, iron deficiency,orhormonalimbalances, creates a perfect storm for chronic fatigue among younger populations How does fatigue manifest itself? Fatigue manifests through a diverse rangeof physical, mental, and emotional symptoms that affect daily functioning. Physically, individuals may experience persistent tiredness despite adequate rest, muscle weakness, headaches, and reduced coordination. Cognitive mani- festationsinclude difficulty concentrat- FINANCIAL EXPRESS fur 09 January 2025 ing, reduced mental clarity often described as brain fog, slower reaction times, and impaired decision-making abilities. Emotionally, fatigue canlead to irritability, mood swings, and decreased motivation to engage in regular activi- ties. People often report feeling over- whelmed by simple tasks that previously seemed manageable.Sleep patterns may beaffected,leadingtocitherinsomniaor excessive sleepinessthroughout theday. Physical performance decreases, with individuals finding ithardertomaintain their usual exercise routines or even complete basic daily activities. Other common manifestations include diges- tive issues, weakened immune system leading to frequent infections, and reduced stress tolerance. Are foot and sole pain merely indicators of fatigue? Pain in feet andsolesis not exclusively anindicatorof fatigue but can be attrib- uted to multiple underlying causes. While fatigue can contribute to foot dis- comfort, these symptoms often indicate structural issues like flat feet, high arches, or plantar fasciitis. Poorfootwear https epaper. financialexpress.comc76558676 choices, prolongedstanding,orexcessive walking without proper support can cause mechanical stress on feet. Medical conditions such as diabetes, peripheral neuropathy, or circulatory problems may also manifest as foot pain. Obesity puts additional pressure on feet, leading to chronic pain. Occupational factors, including jobs requiring long periods of standing or walking on hard surfaces, contribute significantly to foot discom- fort. Sometimes, foot pain can be a sign of systemic conditions like arthritis or gout. Therefore, persistent foot pain should be evaluated professionally to determine the exact causeandappropri- atetreatment approach. When does fatigue become a cause forconcern? Fatigue becomes a serious concern when it persists despite adequate rest and significantly impacts daily function- ing. Waming signs include fatigue last- ingmorethan sixmonths, accompanied by unexplained weight loss, fever, or night sweats. When fatigue interferes with work performance, social relation- ships, or basic daily activities, it requires medical attention. Other red flags include severe morning fatigue that doesnt improve with rest, post-exer- tional malaise lasting more than 24 hours orfatigueaccompanied bynew or worsening physical symptoms. Psycho- logical symptoms like depression, anxi- ety, or persistent mood changes along- side fatigue should prompt professional evaluation. Additionally, if fatigue is accompanied by chronic pain, cognitive difficulties, or signs of organ dysfunc- tion, immediate medical consultation is necessary. The presence of other health conditions like diabetes, heart disease, or autoimmune disorders makes fatigue monitoring particularly important.

282. Image: bd255058-6445-4719-8484-35ba41bcfbd8.jpg
   Extracted Text: HULnears deal to buy D2C brand Minimalist for 3k cr Profitable since FY21,beauty startup outlierin the space AYANTIBERA Bengaluru, January 3 FMCG MAJORHINDUSTAN Unilever is in talks to acquire direct-to-con- sumerbeautystartupMinimalistina deal valued at BEXSLS about 3,000 crore 350 mil- REVENUE _ lion. Thats well GROWTH above Minimal- UKELYTO ists last known STAYMUTED yaluation of PAGE  around 75 mil- lion. HUL invest- mentarmUnileverVenturesinvested in Minimalists Series Aroundin 2021 and holds aminority stake. If the deal goes through, Mini- malist would join a host of beauty and personal care brands at HUL like Dove, Ponds, Lakme, Lux, Sim- ple, Acne-Squad and Lifebuoy. The founders of Minimalist, Jaipur-based siblings Mohit and RahulYadav,togetherown 83.7 of the company, while the earliest backer Peak XV holds a 6 stake as FINANCIAL EXPRESS 52 IN THE CART mThe founders of Minimalist, Jaipur-based siblings Mohit and Rahul Yadav, together own 83.7 ofthe company Most ofthe companys products are priced between 2300-700 MOHIT YADAV, CO-FOUNDER AND CEO, MINIMALIST We dont believe a lot in terms of the pricing growth lever, instead we focus on more innovation and finding gaps which can be tapped perTracxn data. The company had raised a 2-million seed round in 2019 from Peak XV and then 15 million in Series Atwo years later. Like most new-age beauty star- tups, Minimalist sells its products online through its own website and e-commerce channelslike Nykaaas well as through offline channels. Its skincare and haircare products, which focuses on active ingredi- ents, have helped its revenue riseto 04 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress. comc76556039 Pesta Unilever Ventures invested in Minimalists Rarer Iapen Peet Minimalist sells its products online through its. own website and ecommerce channels ike Nykaa as well as through offine channels 8350 crore in FY24, an 86 jump overthe preceding financial year. Most ofthecompanys products are priced between 3.00-700.We dont believe a lot in terms of the pricing growth lever, instead we focus on more innovation andfind- ing gaps which can be tapped, co- founder and CEO Mohit Yadav had told FEinarecentinteraction. es Continued on Page 10

283. Image: c7c870b8-895a-459b-9583-a913676d8757.jpg
   Extracted Text: IIT-KANPUR SAW 133 RISE IN NUMBER OF WOMEN Six years after quota for women at IITs, changes are quite visible VIDHEESHAKUNTAMALLA 2021 marked its highest ever _ security cameras and hired  PALLAVI SMART WOMEN IN IITS A GRADUAL SHIFT _ femaleenrolment of 746. more women guards.We have NEW DELHI, ROORKEE, HIT Delhi, too, has anopen _ installed over 300 cameras on KANPUR, MUMBAI, IIT YEAR TOTAL _ FEMALE STUDENTS houseforwomenstudentsand campus, says Major Reeti JANUARY S STUDENTS UGPGIN their parents, where they are Upadhyay, Deputy Registrar, FROM MORE HOSTELS and ae encouraged to meet faculty IIT Roorkee. washrooms for female stu- Delhi il and explore the campus. Aprofessor from IIT Delhis dents to their own sports 2020 Preeti Aghalayam, Director Department of Civil Engineer- teamsa silent revolution has 2017 of IIT Madrass Zanzibar cam- _ ing says he keeps his office been taking shape at the Bombay pus--thefirstwomanto serve door open if a female student Indian Institutes of Technol- ooo asdirectoratan IIT--saysthat wishes to speak with him. I ogy IITsoverthelastsixyears, Kharagpur 201728 when she did her chemical have adoptedamore sensitive ever since a supernumerary on herpes engineering from IIT Madras approach to teaching now. I quota of 20was set aside for between 1991 and 1995,the _dontscoldgirlsasmuchwhen women. Kanpur EROS, percentage of women in her theymake mistakes because I The quota, under which 2026-25 undergraduate class was feel uncomfortableif they start extra seats were created extremely small. crying hesays. instead of reserving themin Roorkee Back then, the womens The growing female pres- the existing pool, was imple- hostel waslocated far from all ence has also meant a new mented in 2018 based on the 2017-18 the other hostels since the _sportscultureboth IIT Delhi recommendations ofacom- Madras jn9i 36 5 gay number of women at IIT and Bombay have their own mittee led by then IIT-Mandi Madras was miniscule. The womens football teams. Director Timothy Gonsalves, 1,661 campus looks and feels very _-Ravinder Kaur, Professor which called it the required 2 different now. Class sizeshave Emeritus, Department of slight push. While most 11Tf3__ _ doubled, classrooms have dif- Humanities and Social Sci i Source Data obtained through RTI Only 1st Semester numbers givenin i i implementeda 14 quotafor Source Datacbiainedthrough AT. Only st Semester numbers givenin, ferentperspectivesandthereis ences, IIT Delhi, and a women in 2018-19, by2019- fhelinsthute shared details anew energy on campus,she _ researcheronwomenin STEM, 20 it stood at 19 and by says. says, Earlier, the sports 2021-22, most of them had Withthat,gendersensitisa- grounds were dominated by 200 seats for women. Bombay,of 2,790 students in to the All India Survey on tionhasbecomeapartofdaily _men,something that deterred Six years on, data obtained 2017, 570 or 20.43 were Higher Education for 2021- _ institutionalllife. girls who wanted to practise or by The Indian Express under women. 2022, the last yearfor which __PradeepSrivastava,Associ-_ play sports. In the past, mens the RighttoInformationRTI _ Meanwhile, IIT Kanpurwas the data is available, women _ ate Professor, Department of _ hostels were closer to all the Act from 21 of the 23 IITs thelastamong theseven first- make up around 48 of the Earth Sciences at IIT Roorkee, activity centres and the revealsasteadyincreaseinthe generation IITs to cross the totalenrolment,almost ona andamemberofthe institutes. ground. Now, at IIT Delhi, number of women entering 20 femaleenrolment mark, _parwithmen. Internal ComplaintsCommit- womens hostels have also these prestigiousinstitutes. _reachingthemilestoneonlyin __Yet, given the technical _tee,saysmore women oncam- moved closer to the activity AtIIT-Kanpur, the number 2021. Of its 7,716 students nature of IITs,the gender ratio pus has meantacheckonthe _ spaces. of women rose from 908 that year, 1,691 or 21.92 atthese premierengincering male-centric approach. _At IIT Bombay, gender sen- women in 2017 to 2,124 in werewomen. institutes continue to be Everytime there is acase of sitisation workshops are 2024a 133 jump.AtIIT- Like Kanpur,otherfirst- skewed in favour of men. Its sexual harassmentorragging, _ mandatoryforall students and Roorkee, the number went up generation IITs too achieved this that the schemeattempts _ wehave observed aprogressive _ staff, including security per- from 1,489 in 2019-20 to this benchmark at varying to change, with individual change  it no longer starts sonnel, says a student council 2,626 in 2024  a 76.36  speeds.IITsGuwahati,Kharag- institutes implementing a with blamingthe female stu-_ membe jump. IITs in Chennai, Mum- pur and Madras joined the string of measures to make _ dent, hesays. Despite these changes, bai, Guwahatiand Kharagpur, ranks in 2019, with female campuses friendlier for Srivastavas colleague _ challenges remain  stereo- too, sawsimilarincreases. representation of 22.42, women. Naveen Kumar, Professor, types, mentorship gaps and According to thedata, IITs 21.39 and 20.75,respec-. In 2020, IIT Bombay intro-_ Department of Biosciences _lackofinclusivespaces,among Delhiand Bombay crossed the tively. IIT-Roorkee followed duced special orientation ses- and Bioengineering,andDean, others. 20 threshold as early as suit in 2020,where 1,749 or sionsforgirlswhohad cleared Academic Affairs, says he _Sarani Saha, Chairperson, 2017 evenbeforethe quota 20.08 were women out of JEE-Advancedand their par-ensureshecallshisfemalestu- Gender Cell, IIT Kanpur, says was implemented. Of IIT 8,708 students. ents on why they should dents to his officein pairs to _muchremains tobe doneeven Delhis 2,878 students that Achanging classroom choose the Mumbai campus. ensureacomfortableenviron-_now.Women still dont come year, 607 or 21.09 were The increasing presence of The administration claims ment ofleamning. forward to complain about women.Inthe firstsemesterof womenat IITsisin line with that these sessions con- _At IIT Roorkee, where four harassment. 2024atlITDelhi,thatnumber the broaderpattern ofasteady tributedtomoregirlschoosing of 13 hostels areallocatedto Despite gender sensitisa stood at 840  a rise of increase intheirenrolmentin IIT Bombay  from 570 in women, the administration tion workshops, the progress 38.39. In the case of IIT higher education --according 2017 to694in2024.Theyear has spent nearlyRs6 croreon _hasbeenuneven. Mon, 06 January 2025 FINANCIAL EXPRESS https epaper. financialexpress.comc76567966 eS

284. Image: c9216780-ad31-45d6-ab9e-613375167033.jpg
   Extracted Text: NEW EXPRESSWAYS Anewroute from Delhi to Chandigarh VIKRAM CHAUDHARY. DELHITO Chandigarh is a painful road trip, isnt it, with its unending traffic jams and construction at Kungdli, Panipatand Ambala? Theres a new route we discov- ered while testing the new Toyota Taisors real-world fuel efficiency  its longer, you haveto paymoretoll, but saves you both fuel and time, and takes you via two expressways. The regular route Its theoldNH 1 nowcalled NH44 via Panipat, Kamal, Ambala, to Chandigarh. Toll charges are 380, but due to heavy traffic, we took7 hours to cover 280 km. The Taisor, powered by 1.0-litre turbo-petrol engine10.55-13.03 lakh,depend- ingonvariant returned 15kmlitre. The new route YoutakeAmbala-Hisarhighway NH 152, then the Trans-Haryana Expressway NH 152D,and then the National Expressway 5  NE 5, from Delhi to Katra via Amritsar, which then joins the Western Peripheral Expressway near Delhi. The Taisorcovered this distance of 295 kmin 5 hours,and returned 21 kmlitre driven mostly on cruise control at 90 kmh. Toll charges, however, were more almost 600. Why isnt it popular? Partof thereasonis thatneither NH 152D nor NE 5 are complete  youcanttravel from Delhi to Katra onthisroad andit doesnt always show upon maps. But the sections that takeyou from Delhito Chandi- garharecomplete and havestarte showingup on Google Maps. Fuel efficiency TheTaisorreturned 33 highe fuel efficiency  the reason is tha on expressways you drive with min imal acceleration and braking which is more efficient than stop and-go traffic on congested roads. Its cheaper, too. On the old NI 44, the Taisor consumed about 1! litres of petrol at Delhis price o 94.77 perlitre, it meant 1,706 Onthe expressway, however, th Taisor consumed 14 litres of petrc total 1,327  itnot only covere the extra 220 paid ontolls,butals saved 2 hours of travelling time. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 https epaper. financialexp eS

285. Image: c980bce1-316a-4ee6-9f36-c434a3f70499.jpg
   Extracted Text: HE UNION FINANCE min- istry issuedapress releaseon September 24,2024, saying the Supreme Court SC had disposed of 573 direct tax cases with tax effect of less than 5 crore due to revised monetary limits for filing appeals. Budget 2024-25 increased the minimum monetary limit for appeals related to direct taxes, excise and service tax in Income Tax Appellate Tribunal IAT highcourtsHC,andtheSCto 60 lakh, 2croreand 5 crore.Consequently the ministry estimated 843 income tax 1 cases to be withdrawn from the SC, 2,781 cases from HCs, and 717 from the TTAT totalling 4,341 cases. Thissignificantmilestonealignswith thegovernment efforts toreducetaxl igation and promote ease of doing busi ness thereleaseadded Thisisa good start inreducing the humungoustax litigation pending withvarious judicial forums. The monetary impact of the with- drawalwould bea maximum of 10,200 crore. According to latest receipt Budget of July 2024, total LT under dispute was 10.48 lakh crore as of 2022-23. The withdrawal would be lessthan 19 of the total IT under dispute. Thus, high-pitch assessments beyond revised monetary limits are significant. 1-Tunderdispute morethan doubled from 84.98 lakh crore in 2014-2015 to 10.48 lakh crore in 2022-23. Somuch for the promise of eliminating tax ter- rorism! Corporation tax CT disputes increased by 170 from 22.21 lakh crore in 2014-2015 to 85.98 lakh crore in 2022-23. CT in dispute for less than five years is 5.63 lakh crore, which is 9496 of the total disputes. High-pitch assessments have continued over the past five years and litigation manage- ment has been very ineffective. The Central Board of Direct Taxes CBDT Action Plan, 2024-25, provides dataonpendingappeals seetable. New appealsinstituted eachyear from 2020- 21 to 2023-24 is higher than ones dis-  UNFAIR BURDEN WE NEED ATRANSPARENT SYSTEM THAT CURBS LITIGATION AND A QUICK RESOLUTION PROCESS Rein in tax terrorism TV MOHANDAS PAI S KRISHNAN Respectively chairman, Aarin Capital Partners, and tax consultant, RISING TAX APPEALS on Appeals pending as on 1st April Appeals instituted during the year Appeals disposed during the year Closing number ofappeals, 40931 164,836 4,96472 ac ae GE 458,015 464836 4,96470 516,484 47,752 1,04,678 145,273 14,064 73,042 1,25,259 1,11,506 516484 549,02 posed of, showing gross mismanage- ment of dispute resolution. The closing appeals increased from 4.65 lakh in 2020-21 to 5.49 lakh in 2023-24. Itis estimated that 5.80 lakh appeals are pending. Appeals filed prior to April 1, 2022, that are pending as on April 1, 2024,areataround 3 lakh. The Indian taxadministrationhasso far followed an adversarial approach, resulting in a huge backlog of cases and unprecedented tax terrorism. Tax dis- putes arise for multiple reasons. The -T department unnecessarily pursues appeals at all levels, regardless of out- come, since there isno penalty on offi- cers for frivolous litigation. Also, bad drafting of tax laws lead tovaried inter- pretations. HCsprovide divergent opin- ions on the issue, creating confusion. The judiciary also is unable to addressa high volume of pending appeals. Aninefficientineffectivetax admin- istration also contributes to litigation. The Comptroller and Auditor Generals report 14 of 2024, titled Specific Com- pliance Audit on Outstanding Demand on Income Tax Assesses, states, Audit noticed instances of exaggerated tax demands suchas not allowingcredit for FINANCIAL EXPRESS fri, 93 January 2025 taxes already paid, levying incorrect interest,and committing mistakeswhile givingeffect to appeal orders. Auditalso noticed outstanding demand continued to include nullified demands. Delay in givingeffect to appealorders resulted in delayed issue of refunds ITD had to refund the inflated demands collected along with interest under 2444 of IT Act,besidesresultingin harassment and hardships to assessees. Audit observed delays of up to seven years in giving effect to appeal orders by different appellate authorities, with onecasestill awaiting orders for over 11 years Itsa damning comment, but our finance ministry seems unmoved. To stop repeat litigation on similar issues, the Finance Act, 2022, inserteda new Section 158AB. It provides that a collegium of high-ranking officials may decide and intimate the commissioner orprincipal commissionernotto filean appeal if any question of law for a tax- payer for any year is already raised in hisher case or in case of any other tax- payer for any year, which is pending before the jurisdictional HCSC. This newprovision is infructuous tilla requi- site collegium is formed to advise tax https epaper. financialexpress. comc76549769 officials todeferlitigation. The CBDT should extend the dispute resolution panel DRP process, beyond cases involving transfer pricing, to resolve at the first appeal level itself. A DRP isa collegium comprising three commissioners of I-Twith amandate to dispose ofcaseswithin nine months.The government shouldurgentlycreateade- quate collegia to reduce the appeals pending with the commissioners of incometax CITA.Whiletheminimum. monetarylimitsareset for filing appeals before the ITAT, HCs and the SC,amaxi- mum time limit of two years should be set for disposing ofappealsbeforeCITA beyond which appeals shouldbedeemed in favour of taxpayers. For appeals at higher levels, the CBDT should settle all cases pendingat the ITAT in two years and those pending with courts in the next threeyears. Officials with repeated failures in appeals should be punished forwasting public funds. The CBDT should increase the mini- mum monetary limit for filing appeals, in the ITAT, HCs, and the SC to 5 crore, 220 crore, and 100 crore to honour court judgments. On settlement of cases, by courts in favour of the taxpayer, the CBDT shouldwithdrawallappealsin any pending caseinvolvingthesame subject matter within two months, as recom- mended by the Tax Administration Re- form Commission headed by Partha- sarathi Shome. The CBDT should also instruct officials to not litigate on mat- tors that are decided by the SCin favour of any taxpayer. Officials should be penalised forfailingto followthis. India has afailed assessment system anda delayed justice system. We needa transparent tax assessment system that reduces litigation, anda quick resolution process. Only then will the promise to eliminate tax terrorism, overhaul dis- pute resolution mechanisms, provide a non-adversarial and conducivetaxenvi- ronment by the Bharatiya Janata Party inits 2014 manifesto, be fulfilled.

286. Image: d7b147f7-5ca8-411a-8c4c-05d0868004ba.jpg
   Extracted Text: Govt permits wheat export to Nepal THE GOVERNMENT HAS per- mitted exports of two lakh tonne of wheat toNepal,accord- ing toa notification issued on Saturday. The export is permitted through National Cooperative Exports NCEL, the directorate general of foreign trade DGFT said in thenotification. Though export of wheat is banned to maintain domestic supply,outbound shipmentsare allowed on the basis of permis- sion grantedbythe government to certain countries to meet their food securityneedsandon request. In a separate notification, DGFT said inputs imported for synthetic knitted fabrics by advance authorisation holders, EUs exportorientedunitsand SEZs special economic zones shall be exempted from MIP FINANCIAL EXPRESS minimum import condition, Thereisa3.5 perkg MIPon synthetic knitted fabrics to dis- courage inbound shipments of cheap fabrics. Import ofsyntheticknitted fabrics..is restricted. However, importis free if CIF cost, insur- ance, freight value is 3.5 and above per kilogram. Further, inputs imported by advance authorisation holders, EOUs and SEZs shall be exempted from MIP condition it said,  Sun, 05 January 2025 Apparel exporters seek tax incentives THE APPARELEXPORT Promo- tion Council AEPC urged the government to announce tax incentives,including removal of a provision requiring payments to MSMEs within 45 days to claim deductions and customs duty exemption on garment machineryimports. Theapparel exporters body has also requested that an interest equalisation rate of 5 be announced in the Budget, scheduled tobe unveiledon Feb- ruary 1 by finance minister Nir- mala Sitharaman. Other demands include extension of concessional tax rate for new manufacturing units to encouragesettingup of new garment units simplifica- tion intheprocedure ofimports of trims and embellishments under IGCR. PTI https epaper. financialexpress. comc7656042 eS

287. Image: d9eae64f-eacf-4d1d-b4a6-4c42420ac720.jpg
   Extracted Text: FRO RRS PEE OS MR SIT ET TOTTI Banks credit growth to be subdued Icra ICRA HAS REVISED downwards its creditgrowth estimate to 10.5-11 forthecurrentfinancial year from the earlier 11.6-12.5. In its recent report, the credit rating agency said that with the banks focusing on reducing theircredit-to-depositCD ratio and reducing their exposure to unsecured retail and NBFCs, theover- all credit growth has moderated in the past fewmonths. Consequently, credit and deposit growth hasalmostalignedwitheach other, and Icra expects this trend to continue. Credit growth for FY26 may ease to 9.7-10.3, weighed down bythe persisting high CD ratio and imple- mentation of the proposed changes in the liquidity coverage ratio LCR frameworkit said. The persisting highinterestrates and the slowdown in credit growth would impact the margins of the banking sector. In addition, the rate transmissionon yieldsisestimated to be fasteras and when the rate cut cycle begins, which would further compress the margins said Sachin Sachdeva, vice-president  sector head  financialsectorratings,lera. Nevertheless, theretum indica- tors are likely to remain healthy with retum on assets estimated at 1.1-1.2 for FY26andat 1.2-1.3 for FY25 compared to 1.3 in FY24 he said. fe Bureau FINANCIAL EXPRESS T https epaper. financialexpress. comc76546153 EOE ST SaaS LA DS DRT RN eee Microfinance firms shares surge as MFIN defers capping lenders SACHIN KUMAR Mumbai, January 2 SHARES OF MICROLENDERS, including CreditAccess Grameen, Spandana Sphoorty and Equitas Small Finance Bank,rallied on Thurs- dayafter the Microfinance Institu- tions Network MFIN decided to defer by three months the imple- mentation of limiting thenumberof lenders to three per borrower. MEIN, theself-regulatoryorgani- sation forthe microfinance sector, hadin November proposedanewcap of three lenders per borrower and a fewotherguidelinesrelated tounder- writing, KYC, and reporting data to credit bureaus. While the other norms came into effecton January 1, the rule on limiting the number of lenders to three per borrower will nowbe implemented from April 1. The feedback we got from the institutionswas that the changes to the IT systems, the business rule engines andallthattakestime. Todo it right now from January 1, when they have already done one major change in August and September would be a little troublesome and can create some problems in imple- mentation in the field, said Alok Misra, CEO, MFIN, adding That is 3 January 2025 ON A HIGH CreditAccess Grameen Previous close 890.95 Open a 891.00 7.09 Spandana Sphoorty Financial Close 954.1 Close Previous close 330.10 338.9 Equitas Small Finance Bank 65.44 65.0 a Open 0.79 Close Previous close 64,93 whywehave given sometime...from April L itwill be on. Shares of CreditAccess Grameen jumped nearly 10 in intra-day trade on the NSE before closing at 947, 6.5 gain. Shares of Span- dana Sphoorty closed at 339, up 3, whilethe EquitasSFB stock rose nearly 2tocloseat 65.

288. Image: dc9479e4-655e-4d21-9b8e-e347b607d5ef.jpg
   Extracted Text: AIML, OIL  GAS, FMCG MAJOR GROWTH DRIVERS White-collar hiring up 9 in December JOBS UPDATE 3 sectors which saw highest jump in demand Growth in December , y-o-y  occ EE 15 Oil  Gas 13 3 sectors which saw highest fall in demand Growth in December , y-0-y Hiring trends by experience level EERE frsurance 5 jump in demand in December 4 EE Fe aa Banking 03 4-7 B12 13-16 16 -3 MI Financial services years RAGHAV AGGARWAL 2024. twas primarily driven video editors and interior by the creative, lifestyle and designers were among the top retail sectors. These include roles hired, reflecting a bal- HIRING FORwhite-collarjobs design 399, beauty and anced demandforvisualstory- in India rose 9 in December _ wellness 26and consumer telling and spatial innovation, comparedtothesame month durables19. itstated. inthe previous year,asurvey __-FortheFMCGsector,which The architecture and inte- released on Thursday showed. has been struggling due to rior design industry stood out The NaukriJobSpeak Index lowerdemand, the fresherhir- with a 39 growth in fresher reached 2,651 points during ing saw an 18 growth in hiring, contributing to the the month from 2,439 points December 2024,markingthe design sectors impressive last year, driven by high-skill highest monthly increase for 51 growth overall, the andstrategicroles. thesectorthroughouttheyear. reportadded. The top sectors that were In2024,seniorprofession- The report also revealed primary growth drivers in als with experience of more _ that following the strong hir- December 2024includedarti- than 16 years saw the highest ingtrends highlighted in Octo- ficial intelligencemachine jump indemandat 23. ber, South India continued its learningAlML 36,oil Moreover,apartfromtradi- robust performance into gas13,FMCG12and tional CFO and CTO roles, December 2024, reinforcing New Delhi, January 2 healthcare 129. demandsurged forspecialised _ its positionas a key driver of Topmetrocitiescollectively positions like chief safety _white-collaremployment. posted a 10 growth as the _officers14,chieflegaloffi- While Chennai 35 and yearcametoanend,itadded. cers 1206, and chief medical Bangalore 21 sustained Indiasjob markets enter- officers 3. their impressive growth, ing 2025 with vigour, driven _Thesurgeinfresherhiring Coimbatore emerged as a byAIML growthand creative and evolving C-suite roles standout, with fresher sectors, said Pawan Goyal, showsweretransforminginto hiring growing by 14, chief business officer, a more dynamic landscape, fuelled by a 520 surge in for- Naukri.com. Goyal said. eign MNC hiring. Hyderabad However, hiring in the Traditional sectors like also posted 15 growth, banking, financial services, FMCG are embracing this reflecting the regions sus- and insurance BFSI sector _evolution,combiningfreshtal- tained appeal for high-skill sawadecline. ent with strategic expertise, and fresherrolesacrosssectors The hiring of freshers, headed. like IT, consumer durables,and which had majorly been The creative industry realestate. muted throughout 2024, saw showed an interesting techni- a 6 growth in December cal tilt during the month as With inputs from PTI FINANCIAL EXPRESS ti, 02 January 2025 eS nares https epaper . financialexpress.comc765491

289. Image: e54a2e11-cfaf-4aec-a9e8-9ba9be00d8ea.jpg
   Extracted Text: LESSONS FROM COP29 AND STRATEGIES FORINDIA Accelerating adoption of zero-emission trucking lM CHRISTOPH WOLFF TRANSPORT SECTOR contributes 49 of total emissions in India, with freight transport, dominated by heavy-duty trucks, playing a major role. Trucks represent just 3 of vehicle fleet, yet emit 53 particulatematter. With trucksales projected to growsixfold to 69 mil- lion by 2070-71, addressing freight -relatedemissions iscritical. Zero-emission trucking ZET tookthe spotlight at recentCOP29, with initiatives such as the Global MoU on Zero-Emission Medium. and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, and the Zero-Emission Vehicle Declaration. India is a key player in the Global South, and with advance- ments in electric buses and initia- tives like eFAST, it can spearhead the global transition to ZET. The Indian landscape Although Indias EV charging TRUCK LOAD 1 COP29 has highlighted the urgency for zero-emission trucking, with India showin promise through initiatives like FAST and PM E-Drive Trucks represent just 3 of vehicle fleet, yet emit 53 particulate matter mindiahas 12,146 public EV charging stations, but for cars and LCVs, not forelectric trucks. infrastructure is expanding, its insufficient for ZET. There are only 12,146 public EV charging stations that mainly cater to passenger vehicles and light commercial EVs medium andheavy-duty electric trucks require higher-capacity chargers and strategically-placed networks along freight corridors. Indias flourishing truckmarket  projected to grow from 4 million to 17 million by 2050  presents immense potential for economies ofscale. The Data Partnership Pro- gram by Smart Freight Centre can address these barriers. This collab- orative effortwith shippers freight service buyers and logistics service providers LSPs identifies e-truck deployment opportunities in freight use-cases with favourable cost economics and operational feasibility. By defining economic viability parameters and assessing real-world use-cases matched to operational requirements, it deliv- ers insights to drive investment in freight electrification. The Indian government has recognised the importance of promoting EVs, including ZET, as part of its efforts to combat airpollution and reduce dependence on fossilfucls.The PM E-Drive hastakena significant step   FINANCIAL EXPRESS f2t, 04 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress. comc76555682 DRiviNs 29  ZERO ENtSSi0ns forward with the allocation of 500 crore, aimed at accelerating theadoption of electrictrucks. Global best practices Policy and financial incentives have proven pivotal in the EU and theUS.Electrictruck sales globally would continueto increase thanks to strong policies, such as the EUs CO2 standards for HDVs, which tar- get a 90 CO2 emissions reduc- tion by 2040.Theheavy-dutyemi sions regulation in the US is expected to result in zero-emission vehiclesalessharesof upto 60by 2032 indifferent segments. The way forward Indias move to ZET requires a national framework offering incentives for manufacturers and operators. For example, rebates to replacepolluting dieseltruckswith ZET could accelerate uptake. India can also explore models like Battery-as-a-Service, where fleet operatorslease batteries from energy providers to lower upfront costs. Companies like Sun Mobility are pioneering battery swapping. Looking ahead to COP30 COP30 in Brazil is an opportu- nity to build on COP29s momen- tum. ForIndia, it means fostering a shift towards ZET. By addressing challenges, leveraging successes, and embracing global best prac- tices, India can redefine itslogistics sector, solidify its leadership in sus- tainable freight, and set a prece- dent for developingeconomies. India can leverage its position astheworlds third-largest logistics market to drive innovation and progress in decarbonising freight. The authoris CEO, Smart Freight Centre,an international nonprofit focused on reducing emission impacts of freight transportation

290. Image: e5f497a2-a428-45d6-bb94-dbfb76505b01.jpg
   Extracted Text: MSP paddy purchases cross last years level SANDIP DAS New Delhi, January 3 DESPITE A SLUGGISH com- mencement of procurement caused by storage crunch in Punjab, the governments paddy procurement for the 2024-25 season October-Sep- tember has surpassed 48.3 million tonne MT, slightly higherthanlast year. Officials noted that pro- curement operations gained momentum over the past six weeks after the government began evacuating surplus rice stocks from Punjab, the largest contributorto the central pool grain stock. The key contributions are Punjab 17.35 MT, Chhattis- garh 8.89 MT, Haryana 5.37 MT, Telangana 4.26 MT, UttarPradesh 3.86 MT,Mad- hya Pradesh 2.48 MT and Odisha 1.28M1. The procurement drive has bolstered the rice stock in the central pool, which currently stands at 60.59 MThigher than the buffer norm of 7.61 MT for January 1. As of Thurs- day, the Food Corporation of India FCI and state agencies FINANCIAL EXPRESS IN STOCK Paddy procurement for the 2024-25 season has surpassed 48.3 MT Pies see pool stands at 60. saree eto norm of 1 Govt holds 28.65 MT of rice, excluding 31.94 MT yet to be received from millers Procurement target for the current kharif season is 49.21 MT of rice hold 28.65 MT of rice stocks, excluding 31.94 MTyet tobe received from millers. Theprocurement target for the current kharif season is 49.21 MTof rice equivalent to 73.27 MT of paddy, compared to 52.4 MT 78.16 MT of paddy procured last year. Sat, 04 January 2025 The procurement, which began on October 1, faced delays in Punjab and Haryana due to storage limitations. With surplus ricebeing evacu- ated from Punjab in a phased manner, procurement acceler- ated in states like Chhattis- garh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh, reporting higher MSP pur- chases than last year. Procurement by the gov- ernment agencies have been completed in Punjab and Haryana, while other states farmers are still bringing in their produce andit isexpected tocontinue till March. Procurement in Punjab, which remains thelargest con- tributor with 17.35 MT of paddy, is down by 6 com- pared to the previous year. The agriculture ministry has forecast record kharif rice production of 119.93 MT for the 2024-25 crop year July- June,compared to113.26MT in 2023-24, FClannually distributes 38 MT of rice under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana and maintains buffer stocks for food security. https epaper. financialexpress.comc765557 

291. Image: e7e6750c-9a08-4518-aa89-3680d453f1ef.jpg
   Extracted Text: MEITY NASSCOM CoE Awin-win solution e Platform becomes match-maker for India Inc  startups SUDHIR CHOWDHARY LARGEFIRMS NOW recognise the potential of startupsas partners in driving strategic innovation. Bring- ing the twotogetheris MeitY Nass- com Centre of Excellence CoE for IoT and Al.A government-industry initiative, the CoE isemerging asa growth catalyst, offering startups resourceslikementorship,accessto infrastructure, and connections to marketopportunities, while simul- taneouslyenabling large corporates to co-create innovative solutions and stay ahead in the market. A quick glimpse of how it is playing matchmaker. Medprime Technologies,a CoE- incubated healthcare startup, has developeda smart microscope an advanced diagnostic device that can be remotely operated. The CoE facilitated an alliance between Medprime and Dr Lal Pathlabs Medprime connected 600 micro- scopesforthelatteratvariousloca- tion for remote analysis. These microscopes capture high-quality images and videos that can be instantly shared, reducingtimeand effort in diagnosis. By fostering such collaborations, the CoE empowers startups to bridge gaps inhealthcare delivery through cut- ting-edgetechnology,Sanjeev Mal- hotra, CEO, MeitY Nasscom CoE, told FEin an interview. Heresanotherexample.Disease outbreaks pose a significant chal- lenge to poultry farmers, threaten- ing productivity and livelihoods. Dnome has developed a molecular diagnostic solution that predicts earlydisease in poultry. Here again, FINANCIAL EXPRESS fon, 96 January 2025 orf the CoE played acrucial role in con- necting Dnome with Srinivasa Farms,an earlyadopter of thetech- nology,and facilitating investment opportunities with 8X Ventures. Malhotra emphasises that the MeitY Nasscominitiativehastrans- formed corporate mindsets for open innovation and co-creation. https epaper. financialexpress. comc76566460 BEST OF BOTH WORLDS mMeitY Nasscom CoE drives adoption of cutting-edge technologiesin manufacturing, healthcare, retail, BSI and more Cee eee ee ary iia eerur Sree offering tailored tech solutions Corporates benefit by tapping 0 agile and cost-effective solutions that might otherwise take years to develop in-house BL  He cites an another instance wherein a prominent pencil manu- facturerwasstrugglingwithdefects intheirproduction output,impact- ing product quality and customer satisfaction. Recognising this chal- lenge,the CoE introduced a vision- based defect detection solution developedby ahomegrown startup. This Al-powered system utilised advanced imaging and machine learning algorithms to identify defects in real time, ensuring only high-quality products reached the markethe points out. Similarly,a leading FMCG com- pany faced a critical challenge in maintaining high-quality packag- ing for one of their flagship prod- ucts, producing 1.5 lakhbottles per day. Manual inspection led to human errors, fatigue, inconsistent defect detection, customer com- plaints, and revenuelosses. To resolve this, the company implementedanAl-powered quality inspection system by fidoka Tech- nologies and Augur Al. Equipped with high-resolution camerasand advanced Al, the solution provided 360-degree real-time inspection, detecting defectswithin 0.8seconds and automating rejections. With anaccuracy rate of 99.7, the solution significantly reduced defects and customer complaints, saving the company 25,000 annually.Hereagain, the CoE played a pivotal role in facilitating collab- oration between thestakeholders. Being introducedto Vedanta by MeitY Nasscom CoE has opened upa remarkable opportunity to collabo- rateon innovativesolutionstailored to industry needs, said Saurabh Sharma, thefounder COO,adding, we are excited to have been short- listed by Vedanta and look forward to co-creating solutions that drive operational excellence Amitesh Sinha, VP head - Cor- porate Venture Capital  Vedanta Spark, Vedanta Resources, added Startups bringagilityandground- breaking ideas, while Vedanta offers the scale and resources to transform these ideas into impact- ful solutions, creatinga win-win environment?

292. Image: ed03d7c6-afdb-4ae1-aa9c-6c47a8b9235e.jpg
   Extracted Text: Virtual companions, real consequences ROHIT KUMAR SINGH Former secretary, department of consumer affairs,  member, National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission It is imperative to set up legal frameworks and ethical guidelines that safeguard users, especially those most vulnerable, from unintended consequences of AI THE HEARTBREAKING STORY of Sewell Setzerlll,a 14-year-oldboyinthe USwho took his own life after forming an em tional attachment to an artificial intell gence Al chatbot on Character. Al, has sparked debates about the ethical and legal responsibilities of Al developers. In the Indian context, this case raises pro- found questions about how our legal sys- tem should respond to similar tragedies involvingAl. Als role in mental health A double-edged sword Al_powered chatbots are increasingly beingusedascompanions,often designed to simulate human interaction and pro- vide emotional support. While such sys- tems can be beneficial for individuals seeking companionshipormentalhealth assistance, theyalso pose significant risks, particularly when interacting with vu nerablepopulationslike teenagers. In Sewells case, his mother believes that his obsession with an AI chatbot basedona fictional character from Game of Thrones contributed to his mental decline. The chatbot responded in ways that may have deepened his emotional distress rather than alleviating it. This tragic incident highlights the potential dangersofemotionallyintelligent Al sys- tems that are not equipped to handle complex human emotionsresponsibly. Indias legal landscape Alack of specific regulation In India, the legal framework sur- rounding Al is still evolving. Currently, there are no specificlaws governing the useofAlinemotionally sensitive contexts. However, existing laws such as the Infor- mationTechnology Act ITAct, 2000, and theConsumerProtection Actcould poten- tially be invoked in cases where harm is caused by Al-based applications. Under the IT Act, intermediaries which could include platformshosting Al chatbots are granted certain protections from liabilityaslongastheydonot know- ingly allow harmful content orinterac- tions. However, this protection becomes murkywhen dealingwithlsystemsthat canengagein personalised andemotion- ally charged conversations. If an Al chat- bot were found to have contributed toa users mental distress or suicide, could the plat- Cl In the case of Al However, proving causality between anAlinteraction andatragic outcome like suicide is legally complex. In Indias cur- rent legal environment, it would bediffi- cult to hold developers directly responsi- bleunless there was clear evidence that theyhad knowledge oftherisksand failed totakeappropriate action. The need forregulatory safeguards India must work on specific regula- tions governing Al systems ethicaluse in sensitive areas like mental health. Poten- tialregulations could includ  Mandatory safe- guards Developers could formbeheldliableunder berequiredtoimplement Indianlaw?Theansweris Chatbots,onecould safeguards in chatbots farfromclear. arguethat developers that detect signs of dis Negligenceand Owe aduty ofcare to ne et toward duty of care Can userswho may form Fofessionalhelp. developersbe held emotional attachments . Transparency accountable? requirements Platforms In India negligenceistypicallydefined asabreach of dutythat resultsin harm to anotherperson. Toestablish negligence, it must be proven that the defendant owed a duty of care to the plaintiff the defen- dant breached that duty the breach caused harmorinjury. Inthe case of AI chatbots,one could argue that developers owe a duty of care touserswho may formemotionalattach- ments to these systems. If the chatbots Tesponses exacerbate a users mental health issues or failto directthemtoward professionalhelpwhenneeded,thiscould potentially be seen as abreach of duty. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Thu, 2 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress..comc76541531 should be transparent about how their algorithms work and what datais being used to simulate emo- tional responses.  Ethical guidelines Just as doctors andtherapistsareboundbyethical guide- lines when dealing with patients, devel- opers creating emotionally intelligent Al systems should followethical standards designedto protect users fromharm. Comparing international approaches Lessons for us The US, where Sewells tragedy occurred, is also grappling with how best to regulate Al systems. There are calls for stricter oversight and clearer guidelines on howemotionally intelligent chatbots should interact with users. In Moffatt vs AirCanada, the British Columbia Civil Res- olution Tribunal found Air Canada liable for misinformation given to a consumer by an Al chatbot on its website, and awarded damages. India can leam from global examples by proactively introduc- ingregulations that ensure Alsystems pr otitise usersafety especiallywheninter- acting with vulnerable populations like children and teenagers. Thiscouldinclude requiring platforms hosting Al chatbots toconduct regularauditsand risk assess- ments or mandating that these systems include built-in mechanisms for detect- ingharmful behaviour. Call for collective responsibility While regulatory frameworks are essential,addressing tragedieslike Sewell Setzerlllsrequiresacollective effortfrom allstakeholders, Parents need to monitor theirchildrensonline interactions closely, especially when using emotionally intel- ligent AI systems. Educators and mental health professionals mustraiseawareness about the potential risks posed by these technologies. AswecontinueintegratingAlinto our lives in increasingly intimate ways, itis imperative that we establish legal frame- works and ethical guidelines that safe- guard users  particularly those who are mostvulnerablefromunintendedcon- sequences. Thetragic death of Sewell Set- zerll servesasasobering reminderofthe power technology holds over ourlives  and theurgent need for accountabilityin itsdevelopmentand deployment.

293. Image: ed60bd5d-cd87-442f-9645-13b2043170b2.jpg
   Extracted Text: FESTIVAL-LED DEMAND DRIVES GROWTH Banks post strong growth in advances, deposits in Q3 SACHIN KUMAR Mumbai, January 3 STARTING THE NEW year ona pos- itive note, Bank of Baroda, Bank of India, Yes Bank, and IDFC First Bank reported strong growth inadvances and deposits in Q3.The growth in the December quarter was driven by festival-led demand, provisional business updates released by the banks on Friday showed. Bank of Barodas domestic advances rose 11.76 year-on-year to 9.63 lakh crore in the third quar- ter against 8.62 lakh crore in the December 2023 quarter, the lender said in astockexchangefiling. Domestic deposits climbed 9.2306 to 1.1.65 lakh crore in the third quarter against 10.67 lakh crorein the Decomber2.023 quarter. The banks global advances rose 11.65 to 11.72 lakh crore in the third quarter from 10.49 lakh crore in the same quarter of the previous year. Global deposits jumped 11.82 to13.92 lakh croreason December 31 against 212.45 lakh crore inthe third quarter of the previousfiscal. ROBUST NUMBERS Growth y-o-y in third quarter  ll Advances ml Deposit maze Bank of Baroda Bank of India Yes Bank IDFC Fo 2 2 Bank of Indias total domestic deposits grew 13 to 86.79 lakh crore inthe third quarter of the cur- rentfinancial year from 6lakh crore in the year-ago period. Its domestic advances increased 15 to 85.46 lakh crore in the third quarter from FINANCIAL EXPRESS et 04 January 2025 4,75 lakh crore in the same quarter inthe previous financial year. Global business grew 14 to 14.5 lakh crore. Total global deposits of the bankrose 12to 7.95 lakh crore. Yes Bank loans and advances in the third quarter grew 12.60 year- https epaper. financialexpress.. comc76553492 on-year to 22.45 lakh crore. Its loan bookwas2.17 lakh croreat the end of December 2023, while on a sequential basis, the loan book grew 4.29from 2.35 lakh crore. Deposits in the third quarter grew 14.6 to 2.77 lakh crore from 2.41 lakh crore in the same quarter of the pre- viousyear. Private lender IDFC First Banks loans and advances increased by 21.9to2.22 lakh crore atthe end ofthird quarter from 21.89 lakh crore atthe end of third quarter of thepre- vious financial year. Deposits grew 28.8 to 2.27 lakh crore as of December 31,2024, against 21.76 lakh croreas of December 31, 2023. The banks currentaccount sav- ings account CASA deposits increased 32. 3to 1.13 lakh crore as of December 31, 2024, from 85,492 croreas on December 31, 2023. Its CASA ratio improved to 47.8 as of December 31, ascom- pared to 46.8 as of December 31, 2023. ts credit-deposit CD ratio slippedto 95.7asofDecember 31, 2024, compared to 101.4 as of December 31, 2023.

294. Image: ee95ce0c-f827-4b37-948f-d4aef83ccad8.jpg
   Extracted Text: FMMEE RKETS ETS Budget wish list Lower tax on FD interest  fund for NBFCs FE BUREAU New Delhi, January 2 AHEAD OF THE Budget for 2025- 26,representatives of the financial sector and capital markets on Thursday sought a lowering of tax on interest income from fixed deposits to align with capital gains tax on equities, a dedicated refi- nancing window for non-banking financial companies NBFCs, and incentives forlong-term savings. To support deposit mobilisation by banks amid the flight of funds from banks to the capital market, banks suggested finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to treat income from fixed depositsat parwith capi- tal gains tax on equities. Currently, FDincomeis taxedas pertheapplic- able income taxslab rates, with the marginal rate being 30 excluding cess and surcharge, sources said. However, short-term capital gains tax rate for listed equity shares held for less than 12 months stands at 20 while the long-term rate is 12.5 for holding above 12months. After the Reserve Bank of India increased risk weightage on bank lending to NBFCs, large NBFCsare now borrowing mostly from over- seas while alarge number of small and mid-sized NBFCs are now bor- rowing from large NBFCs, which is increasing their costs, said Finance Industry Development Council FIDC director Raman Aggarwal. So, there is a very strong case for direct refinance window providedto NBIC. A specific fund can be dedi- cated forrefinancing NBFC loans to Finance minister irmala Sitharaman chairs a pre-Budget consultation with representatives from the financial sector and capital markets in New Delhi on Thursday. She will present the Budget for FY26 onFebruary1 aw MSMEs, small borrowers and envi ronment-friendlyassetslikeclectric vehicles, Aggarwal said. Nabard or Sidbi could be made administrator oftherefinancing window toNBFCs. Edelweiss Mutual Fund MD  CEO Radhika Gupta said sugges- tions were also given regarding improvingefficiency of capital mar- kets and increasing capital market inclusion. Recommendation regarding incentivisation towards long-term savings, both debt and equity, were also made, sheadded. To aid loan recovery by NBECs, Aggarwal saidthe Securitisationand Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Inter- est SARFAESI Act needs some tweaking. Currently, he said, the limitunderthe SARFAESIActis 220 FINANCIAL EXPRESS Fri, 03 January 2025 2 https epaper.financialexpress. RUN-UP TO THE Pye ry lakh foradmission of cases for recov- ery which can be reduced to 1 lakh so that smaller NBFC players canbe coveredunderthis,headded. Healso said the government can consider removing tax-deducted at source DS on non-individual borrowers from NBFCsas thereis noextrarev- enuegenerated from this provision. There is no benefit to the borrower ortothe lender. tis causingan oper- ational nightmare, Aggarwal said. NBFCs are the only class of com76547474 financial institutions whichare not exempt from the TDS provision. Sitharaman on Thursdaychaired theseventh pre-Budget consultation withstakeholdersfromthefinancial sector and capital markets. The meeting was attended by NSE CEO Ashish Kumar Chauhan, Gaja Capi talco-founderGopal jain, HSBCBank India CEO Hitendra Dave, Bank of America Head of Indiaand ASEAN Economic Research Rahul Bajoria, Bandhan Bank CEO Partha Pratim Sengupta, FIDC director Raman Aggarwal, HDFC Life Insurance CFO Niraj Shah, Edlewis ME CEORadhika Gupta, Purnartha Investment Advis- ers chairman Rahul Rathi, HDFC pension management companys CEO Shriram Iyer, and Devra Research deputy ED Deepti George. 25

295. Image: f0540734-3385-4f84-9ca6-654ada09a8f0.jpg
   Extracted Text: Banks urge RBI to ease cash crunch with forex swaps CURRENCY WATCH  tomorrow-next forward points 2 onshore points tn last price  10.04 8.0 6.0 40 2021 2022 2023 2024 Bloomberg BHASKAR DUTTA Acombination of seasonal fac- january 2 tors and a surge in global  investorsdemandfor therupee SOME BIG LENDERS in India _ as they chase localinitial public haveaskedthecentralbankto _offeringshadcontributedtothe inject liquidity usingforeign- funding squeeze. T exchangeswaps as short-term Higher financing costs are he currencyfinancingcostssurged posing challenge forthe RBI toafour-yearhigh,accordingto to support an economy thats peoplefamiliarwiththematter. witnessing a slowdown in Inrecent informalinterac- manufacturing _ activities. Ol tions, some lenders asked the  Whileit isunclearwhether the Reserve Bank of Indiatocon- RBI would agree to the siderusing FXswapswherethe requests, the side effects of MORE parties simultaneouslyagreeto such an operation might add and s exchange currenciesin the spot pressure on the rupee,which been marketand reversethetransac- has been setting new record Netwo tion at afuture date, the people _lowssince December. OND. said, Such operations could On Monday, the rupees saidor effectivelyinjectrupeeliquidity tomorrow-nextforward points Ag intothe financial markets. surged to alevel unseen since _ tiative Therequestscame afteran early 2021, Meanwhile, the indicator for front-end cur- one-year implied forward rency borrowing costssurged yields on the rupee hovered on Monday, the people added, _neartwo-yearhighs,reflecting asking not to be identified as high costs of guarding against the engagements were private. its volatility. BLOOMBERG FINANCIAL EXPRESS ti 03 January 2025 eS suprise https epaper.financiale

296. Image: f1612f9e-5788-4c1c-bc7a-b22493b96424.jpg
   Extracted Text: Zomato shares fall 5 after Jefferies downgrades stock RAGHAV AGGARWAL New Delhi, January 7 SHAREPRICES OF foodaggregator Zomato fell around 5 on Tuesday after global brokerage Jefferies downgraded the stock to hold cit- ingintensifying competition inthe quick commerce space. The stock closed down 4.59 at 22.52.50 on theBSE.Thebrokeragealsoreduced its target price for Zomato by 18, from 335 to 2275. Jefferies said 2025 is likely to be ayear of consolidation forthe com- pany. It had given abuy rating to the stock in November, citing opti- mism over the foodtech majors newly-launched District app. The brokerage has highlighted concems about intensifying com- petition in thequickcommerceseg- ment, where Zomatos Blinkit faces challenges from SwiggysInstamart, Zepto and other emerging players. Jefferies said this competitive land- scape is expected to exert pressure on Zomatos profitability due to aggressive discounting strategies and efforts by its competitors to deepen market penetration. The franchise will face issues onprofitability and may notbe able toachieve consensus estimates on profitability, in our view, Jefferies said. Allthe top players have acceler- ated networkrollouts inthe last few quarters. The top three quick com- merce companies - Blinkit, Insta- mart and Zepto  have also raised fresh funds for expansion. The sec- tor will also see new entrants like Amazon and Reliance. Jefferies said Flipkart Minutes appears to be the most aggressive quick commerce platform at pre- sent Itisproviding the highest per- centage of discounts at 22. It is followed by DMart Ready at 219, and Zepto and Blinkitat 15 each. FINANCIAL EXPRESS STEEP DECLINE Zomato Intra-day on BSE , Jan 7 261 258.45 ear Sera Open Close However, the agency also pointed out that Zomato is not excessively expensive and it was not worried about the overall growth of the company. We find the Blinkit team the best in class, and hence, there is no significant risk to its market leadership in the medium term In contrast to Jefferies down- grade, Bernstein on Monday men- tioned Zomatoasitstop pick.Itsaid Zomatowill focus on grabbing mar ket share within quick commerce through its dark store expansion strategy.Thecompanyplans tohave 1,000 such stores by FY25 and 2,000 by the end of 2026. The near-term trade-off of profitability for growth within quick commerce will set up the stage for faster margin accretion from FY26,itsaid. Morgan Stanley has reiterated its overweight rating on Zomato, saying that its ongoing focus on profitability and improvinggrowth visibility will drive revenue despite the growing competition. Wed, 8 January 2025 https epaper. financialex

297. Image: f4c13d6f-b617-4dc8-851a-888479586787.jpg
   Extracted Text: A 24-billion fund puts its religious stamp on corporate America JEFF GREEN  SAUEL KISHAN January 3 JIM LAKE, A devout Christian in Washington state,said his religious beliefs have always made him opposed to practices such as abor- tion, transgender transitions or embryonic stem cell research. But until this past year, it didnt cross the retirees mind thathe could put his money towork with his faith. A financial adviser switched Lakes portfolio overto ahandfulof faith-friendly funds, one of which was run by GuideStone Funds, a 106-year-old investment firm in Texas that oversees some 24 bil- lion inassets.The companycaters to Southern Baptist retirees and, increasingly, newly active faith based investors suchasLakeand his wife. GuideStone is part of a nascent coalition of conservative Christian investors that are starting to flex their muscles and use their share- INVESTMENT IN RELIGIOUS FUNDS IS RISING Assets in faith-friendly ETFs and mutual funds through mid-2024 100  2000 02 04 06 08 y Total Assets in Faith-Friendly Funds  000  wml 0 12 14 16 18 20 22 Source BrightlightBloomberg Note Data for 2024 is through June holder clout to counter progressive corporate policies such as funding Pride parades or covering employ- ees travel costs for abortions. Theyre alsozeroingin on banks for allegedly closing customeraccounts on political and religious grounds. By some measures, theres now halfa trillion dollars in investments FINANCIAL EXPRESS Set 04 January 2025 spread across conservative faith- based private funds and state pen- sion funds that can be brought to bear to influence company behav- ior, said Will Lofland, who oversees shareholder advocacy at Guide- Stone. The loose confederation includes Inspire Investing, the biggest faith-based exchange- https epaper. financialexpress. comc76556065 20 traded fund manager Republican state treasurers and teacher pen- sion funds and Alliance Defending Freedom, an influential conserva- tive legal group. As they attract more money, membersof the coalitionare meet- ing with corporate executives and filing shareholder _ proposals. Theyve had limited success so far, yet aim to build their bloc of sup- portersand target morecompanies this year, Lofland said. Theinvestorswantto honorthe Lord with all of their resources, he said.They want their dollars being invested in what they believe is the God-honoringway. Religious investing has been around for decades, often with a focus on more liberal issues suchas worker rights and climate change. But funds suchas GuideStone have beenemboldened by the rightward shift of US politics and the wave of conservative activists and lawyers who have already pushed compa- nies tocurtail orend programs that support diversity, equity and inclu- sion efforts. Manypoint to anti-DEI activist Robby Starbuck, a non- denominational Christian, and his success in getting companies such as Walmart., Toyota Motor and Harley-Davidson to backtrack on initiatives  particularly those related toLGBTQ causes. Among everyday investors, there is growing interest in religious- based funds, said Tim Macready, head ofglobal multiasset investing at Brightlight, which advises investors on faith-based portfolios. Assetsin faith-friendlyETFs and mutual funds exceeded 100 bil- lion for the first time last year, according to annual study con- ducted by the firm. The analysis, compiled from 27 faith-basedasset mangers likely capturesonly apor- tion oftheactivity. The full universe could range from 200 billion to 500 billion, Macready said. Net inflows have been 12 overthelast three years,hesaid One broker-dealer went from 200 advisers working with Guide- Stone in 2021 to more than 2,000 now,Loflandsaid. Inspiresaid ithad net new assets of 334 million last year. 72272? Its biggest ETF, Inspire 100, returned 11.5 last year excluding reinvested dividends, underperforming the SP 500s 23 gain. GuideStones biggest fund, the GuideStone Equity Index Fund, gained 200 last year, slightly underperforming the SP 500 Index. Lake, a 64-year-old resident of Nine Mile Falls, Washington, invested with GuideStone after being introduced to an adviser whosesolepracticeis working with people investing in faith-friendly funds, It really opened up my eyes to the ability to remain faith- friendly and at the same time, be competitive, Lake said. GuideStone operates out of anondescript office building overlooking a freeway in northern Dallas, and maintained such alow profile that Lofland said he didnt know about the funds until he applied to work there. The firm mainly manages pension investments for Baptist churches, yet Lofland saw an opportunity to become more active. BLOOMBERG

298. Image: f9c8f6cc-8f0e-4534-accc-67afafeb3a9e.jpg
   Extracted Text: Higher yields  prices drive growth no increase in area under tobacco cultivation FY25 tobacco exports to top 13,000 cr FE BUREAU New Delhi, January 1 INDIAS EXPORTS OF tobacco are expected tocross 13,000 crorethis financial year, up from 12,005 crore last financial year, due to higher yields and prices, a senior official said on Wednesday. In the last five years, tobacco exports have grown by 87 from 6,408.15 crore in 2019-20.Dur- ing this period, the export volumes haveincreased from 218.84 million kgto 315.51 millionkg. The output of flue-cured Virginia FCV tobacco, which accounts for 65 of the total tobacco exported from India, has grown to 304 million kg in the last financial year from 234.8 million kg in 2019-20. The price of FCV has gone upto279.14 per kglast year from 124 perkgin 2019-20. While FCV is the most traded tobacco from India, there areother varieties that are produced and exported from India.A combina- tion of higheryieldsand pricesled to the doubling of income of 83,000 tobacco farmers in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. IAI EXPR Thu, 02 January 2025 FINANCIAL EXPRESS  j.ctpsepaper. financialexpress..comc76541498 GROWING SHIPMENTS Indias tobacco exports Value  crore g 8 g 2 a 2 8 883 3 3 3 g  8 8 a RE Ss a  8 8? R 8 8   RS s The government is not encouraging the growth in acreage under tobacco india has committed at the World Health Organization not to promote tobacco ducer of tobacco in the world, after China. Indiaisthe fourth-largest pro- ducer of FCV tobacco in the world, after China, Brazil and Zimbabwe. India is the second-largest exporter of unmanufactured tobacco, in terms of quantity,after Brazil. Despite the performance of the sector, thegovernment is notencour- aging the growth in acreage under tobacco orbringing more farmers to take up its cultivation. No new farm- cershavebeen registeredin thelast 10 years.Thereason forthefreezeisthat the world market for tobacco has been stagnant and India has com- mittedat theWorld Health Organisa- tionnot topromotetobacco. To promote other agriculture exports by ensuring adherence to international standards the gov- ernment is also expanding the lab- oratories under the Export Inspec- tion Council EIC. In the last 10 years, the number oflabshave gone upto 78 from 21 in 2013-14. The expansion of the networkof labs with latest facilities had helped exporters. From September 2017, the labs of EIC started testing con- signments offish andfisheries prod- ucts to the European Union EU for bannedantibioticresidueSincethen the number ofrejectionsperyearhas gone down to 3 in 2024 from 15 in 2017. Apart from fish, the EIC also tests exports of milk, eggs, honey, basmati andnon-basmatirice fruits and vegetables, poultry and processed meat, and meat. Peanuts forthe EU,Malaysia,Sin- gapore rapeseed and soybean meal for China black pepper for the USA andanimal products arealsotested. Voluntary certification scheme for non-notified food products requir- ing certification byimporting coun- tries also pass through EIC. The number of export establishments has increased to 1,446 in 2023-24 from 794 in 2013-14. The number of EICs export certificate accepted by importing countries doubled to OPA FER PPeBERHA

299. Image: f9cbe40a-759e-4f06-b130-e5111d6fde6f.jpg
   Extracted Text: e Current status of the textile and apparel sector THE INDIANTEXTILE and apparel TA industry has performed well in the current fiscal, with exports up by 6.93 during April-November 2024 compared to the same period in 2023. This growthis primarily driven by theapparel segment, whichsawan 11.3 tise in exports. The surgeis attributed torisingdemand forIndian TAproductsin majormarkets like the USAand the EUThe industryis optimistic about sustaining this momentum through the rest of the fiscal. India isa significant player inthe global textileand apparel market, ranking as the worlds sixth largest exporterin 2023. The sectoraccounted foraround 8 of Indias total exports in 2023-24. However,uncertainties on the continuation of some critical schemes suchas the Remission of Dutiesand Taxes on Exported Products RoDTEP foradvanceauthorisationAA special economic zones SEZ and export- oriented units EOU, aswell asthe Interest Equalisation Scheme beyond December 31, 2024,posea potential challenge to the growth of the industry. QUALITY CONTROL ORDERS QCOs are regulatory directivesissued by the government to ensure that specific products meet mandatory quality and safety standards. Unlike voluntary Bureau of Indian Standards BIS norms, QCOs arecompulsory, requiring FINANCIAL EXPRESS e Quality control orders announced for textile products Explainer RO FOR GROWTH Whats holding back our textile  apparel exports? India is looking at 100 billion worth of textile exports by 2030.Ahead of Budget 2025, Chandrima Chatterjee suggests tweaks in the quality control orders for textile products and tackling non-tariff barriers faced by exporters to leverage Free Trade Agreements to the maximum manufacturers, importers and sellers to comply with the prescribed norms. Theintent behind introducing QCOs in textiles for certain man-madeMMF fibres, filaments and yarns is enhancementof product quality. However, the industrys primary concem liesin the implementation approach. Globally, such mandatory quality standards are usually applied top-down, beginning with finished goods. Whereas in India, the focus of quality standards ison raw materials such as fibresand yarns. financialexp.epapnin Wed, 08 January 2025 https epaper. financialexpress.. comc76581373 e Are QCOs posing any challenges? THE PRESENT APPROACH has limited the supply of certain raw materials as many overseas suppliers are yet to receive BiScertification. Though exemptions for importsbyAA, SEZand EQUunitsare allowed, these provisionsapply only to physical exports,not intermediate supplies. The manufacturers of certain specialised downstream products who are dependenton imports of such raw materials due to non-availability domestically interms of required quality and quantity have takena hit.This might lead toa flood of imports of the next productin the value chain, suchas fabric and garments, which will affect the interest of the domestic manufacturers. Assuch, there isa dire need to re-evaluate the policy regarding the QCOsand an impact assessment needs to bedone before announcing any further QCOs.To meet the objective ofhaving quality finished goods,QCOs maybe started from the garments. e Fibre prices,sops for investment INDIAN FIBRE PRICES, including that ofcotton and MMF are 12 to 30 higher than thoseavailable to competitors. That percolates downthe value chain, resultingin the erosion of the cost-competitiveness of the gatmentsand made-ups.The government needs to ensure raw material availabilityat internationally competitive prices by removing import duty fromall cotton vatieties asalso liberalising the import policy forMMFfibres. Following the discontinuationof the Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme TUFS, thereisalack of investment incentives for MSME units, which constitute the majority of the industry. MSMEs require TUFS- likeschemeswith upfront.capital subsidiesand simplified procedures to ensure capacity building, particularly indownstream segments,toattract more investments. e Leveraging free trade agreements FOR THETEXTILE and apparel sector, Free Trade Agreements FTAs provide tariff concessions, better market access, anda level-playingfieldagainst global competitors. Recently India has signed tradeagreements with important TA markets suchas the UAE,Australiaand Mautitiusandhasalso signed a pact with the European Free Trade Association EFTA.The industry is particularly keen on finalising the FTA with the EU, the second-largest export destination for Indian TA products. Tomaximise the benefits of FTAs,the government may also negotiate on the various non-tarifftechnical barriers that Indian exporters might be facingwhile expotting to these countries. For instance, theEUand the UKare coming upwith stringent quality measures at the same time, the Indian government through the BIS isalso coming with standards thatareat parwith international norms.Bothsidesmay negotiate formutual recognition of testing and quality normswhichwill furthercatalyse bilateral trade. The writer is secretary-generalofthe Confederation of indian Textile Industry

300. Image: fbe3c970-5790-410d-aa78-4f193fa15490.jpg
   Extracted Text: Cutting through the hype on Al, RTO, and DEI FROMA QUICK glance at 2024s top business headlines, youd think all compa- nieswere pushing retumn-to- office RTO policies, embracing artificialintelligence Al, and banishing diversity, equity, and inclusion DEI programmes. But as we head into 2025, lets remember that headlines dontalways reflect reality. Start with RTO mandates. The media lovesa scary back-to-the-office headline. From the point of view of clicks, a strict five-day-a-week policy is gold. Even bet- ter? If that policy applies to liberal tech dweebs. Full points ifitsacompany that once promised to work remotely forever, like Xwhen it was still Twitter. These headlines gain attention because they play tosome readers anxieties  and others schadenfreude. But the reality is that most companies have accepted hybridwork. Even Elon Musk had to back off his declarations of full RTO at X shortly after his initial, well-publicised demands, he conceded thered be excep- tions. He also shuttered some of the companys offices, meaning that all staffin those locations had to go fully remote. expect thisdualityto ramp upin 2025, with more companies loudlyannounc- ingreturns tothe office even as themajority quietly shrink their office footprints orcontinue toembrace hybrid arrangements. On to generative Al. Since ChatGPT burst onto the scene twoyears ago, weve seen endless speculation about what such technology could doand how workers mightuse it. In 2024,75 of employees used generative Al at work, accordingto asurveyby EY thatsmuch higher than the 49 whosaid, in 2023,that theyantic- ipated using itin the months tocome. Butifthelast twoyears havebeenabullettrain, for Al,as my Bloomberg Opinion colleague Parmy Olsonwrote recently, we maybeheading fora slow- downat the station That slowdown could presage the next, more realistic phase in thehype cycle,a phrase coined by Gartner to describe technological change. First, a new technology triggers a surge in inflated expectations, which is followed by a trough ofddisillusionmentasthetechslimitations become apparent. Gradually, people figure out how thething can actuallybe used and peoplesexpecta- CARMICHAEL  tssettlesomewhereinbetween.Wemaybehead- ing therewith text-based generative Alin 2025. Bloomberg Butif the newyearbringsmore measured cover- age of Al, expect the opposite is true of DEI. Inthe last couple of years, right-wing activists have made a punchingbag of it. And I dont, think President-elect DonaldTrumpsreturn to the White Houseis going to convince themtohold theirfire. But the reality is messier than the DEI-doomer headlines suggest. Yes, somevery large companies, intimidated by activist shareholders and legal threats, have announced changes to diversity programmes. But despite the backlash, many com- panies remain convinced thatit isstill important todothe core workassociated with DEI programmes recruit fromthe largest possible talent pool assess workers accu- rately and fairly, without implicit bias and foster an environment free of overt racial prejudice, gender hostility or sexual harassment Not least because suchdiscrimina- tion remainsillegaland generatesa farlargernumberoflawsuits than anyreverse is- crimination claims Others will integrate data-driven DEI practicesinto core managerial functions  an approach that could actually yield better results for women and minorities. For example, rather than demanding every finalist pool contain at least one diverse candidate a backlash-sparking practice that has not resulted in more diverse hi ing, HR could insist that managers hireaccording to clear, objective,consistent cri- teriaincludingaconcrete definition ofculture it Aninsurance company thatfol- lowed this more igorousapproachended uphiring46 moreminorityapplicants, accordingto scholarship by Joan C Williams. We might bedonewith DEI asan acronym. But the practice, whatever we call it, will evolve to fit anewera.Evolvingis somethingthatweallhaveto dobutwecant do it skillfully unless we can cut through thehype. FINANCIAL EXPRESS hu, 22 January 2025 eS ruoreiws https epaper. financialexpress.c

